<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](http://doctoc.herokuapp.com/)*

- [Cota](#cota)
- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [About C.O.T.A.](#about-cota)
    - [The World of COTA](#the-world-of-cota)
  - [How to Read COTA](#how-to-read-cota)
    - [Book layout](#book-layout)
    - [Notation use](#notation-use)
  - [How to Play COTA](#how-to-play-cota)
    - [What you need to play a Victus Role Playing Game](#what-you-need-to-play-a-victus-role-playing-game)
    - [What do characters do in COTA](#what-do-characters-do-in-cota)
    - [How to play a role-playing game](#how-to-play-a-role-playing-game)
      - [Sample Game play](#sample-game-play)
- [Character Generation](#character-generation)
  - [Quick Character Creation](#quick-character-creation)
    - [Attributes](#attributes)
    - [Powers](#powers)
    - [Subpowers](#subpowers)
    - [Skills](#skills)
  - [Attributes Details](#attributes-details)
    - [IPL](#ipl)
      - [Basic Attributes](#basic-attributes)
  - [Immortal Powers](#immortal-powers)
      - [IPL](#ipl-1)
    - [Body Reconstruction](#body-reconstruction)
        - [Ghost Form](#ghost-form)
      - [Specialties](#specialties)
    - [Matter Creation](#matter-creation)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-1)
      - [Quick Item Creation Rules](#quick-item-creation-rules)
    - [Life Creation](#life-creation)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-2)
    - [Energy Control](#energy-control)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-3)
    - [Warp Control](#warp-control)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-4)
    - [Gravity Control](#gravity-control)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-5)
    - [Continuum Control](#continuum-control)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-6)
    - [Electrokinesis](#electrokinesis)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-7)
    - [Shapeshift](#shapeshift)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-8)
    - [Influence](#influence)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-9)
    - [Illusion](#illusion)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-10)
    - [Martial Warfare](#martial-warfare)
      - [Specialties](#specialties-11)
  - [SubPower Details](#subpower-details)
  - [Skills Details](#skills-details)
- [Game Rules](#game-rules)
  - [Basics of The Victus Gaming System](#basics-of-the-victus-gaming-system)
    - [Experience Points](#experience-points)
      - [How Much XP Should Be Given](#how-much-xp-should-be-given)
      - [Spending XP](#spending-xp)
    - [Attributes, Powers, and Skills](#attributes-powers-and-skills)
      - [How to Make Power Checks](#how-to-make-power-checks)
      - [How to Make Skill Checks](#how-to-make-skill-checks)
  - [Combat](#combat)
    - [Attacking](#attacking)
    - [DR Damage Resistance](#dr-damage-resistance)
    - [Effects of Damage](#effects-of-damage)
    - [Grapple Rules](#grapple-rules)
    - [Ship to Ship Combat Example](#ship-to-ship-combat-example)
    - [Structure DR reference table](#structure-dr-reference-table)
    - [Computer Combat](#computer-combat)
    - [Combat Movement](#combat-movement)
    - [Interactions and Contests Difficulty Tables](#interactions-and-contests-difficulty-tables)
- [Equipment](#equipment)
  - [General Equipment](#general-equipment)
  - [Weapons and Armor](#weapons-and-armor)
      - [Automatic fire rules](#automatic-fire-rules)
  - [Planetary Vehicles](#planetary-vehicles)
  - [Space Ships](#space-ships)
    - [Designing Space Ships](#designing-space-ships)
      - [Size Classes](#size-classes)
      - [Engines](#engines)
      - [Life Support Systems](#life-support-systems)
      - [The Bridge and Ship Command](#the-bridge-and-ship-command)
      - [Other Units](#other-units)
  - [Making Equipment](#making-equipment)
    - [Making Equipment with Matter Creation](#making-equipment-with-matter-creation)
  - [People, Creatures, and Races](#people-creatures-and-races)
    - [Agents of the Council](#agents-of-the-council)
    - [Alien Races](#alien-races)
      - [Xelomites](#xelomites)
    - [Other Folks](#other-folks)
- [Setting](#setting)
  - [History](#history)
    - [Time Line](#time-line)
    - [The Xelomite Invasion of 7281](#the-xelomite-invasion-of-7281)
      - [Preface](#preface)
      - [Council Member Elliot Lakes Personal Journal: The Plan, June 7281](#council-member-elliot-lakes-personal-journal-the-plan-june-7281)
      - [Council Member Cronus Garett Personal Journal: The Trap is Sprung,](#council-member-cronus-garett-personal-journal-the-trap-is-sprung)
  - [Current Affairs](#current-affairs)
    - [Linked Space](#linked-space)
      - [A Brief History](#a-brief-history)
      - [Earth and Sol](#earth-and-sol)
      - [The Structure of Linked](#the-structure-of-linked)
    - [Radiance and The Gap](#radiance-and-the-gap)
      - [Radiance](#radiance)
    - [FreeSpace](#freespace)
      - [The FreeSpace Military](#the-freespace-military)
      - [Faraway](#faraway)
        - [Planetary Specifications](#planetary-specifications)
    - [Vien](#vien)
    - [Diego Sector](#diego-sector)
    - [The FreeSpace Economy](#the-freespace-economy)
      - [Banks](#banks)
  - [JumpSpace](#jumpspace)
  - [The Galactic Map](#the-galactic-map)
    - [Long Range Space Travel](#long-range-space-travel)
  - [ElectroImmortals and NavComps](#electroimmortals-and-navcomps)
  - [Galactic Technology](#galactic-technology)
  - [Artifacts](#artifacts)
  - [People and Aliens](#people-and-aliens)
    - [The Council Hunters](#the-council-hunters)
      - [Hunter's Code](#hunters-code)
    - [AIs](#ais)
    - [Xelomites](#xelomites-1)
- [Just In Case You Were Curious](#just-in-case-you-were-curious)
  - [Character Stats](#character-stats)
    - [Body Reconstruction](#body-reconstruction-1)
      - [Destruction of the Physical Form](#destruction-of-the-physical-form)
    - [Vaccuum Survival](#vaccuum-survival)
    - [The Mathematics/Physics of COTA](#the-mathematicsphysics-of-cota)
      - [Xelomite Food Sources](#xelomite-food-sources)
- [Running The Game](#running-the-game)
  - [Long Term Plotline Ideas](#long-term-plotline-ideas)
  - [Introductory Adventure](#introductory-adventure)
    - [Sanctuary](#sanctuary)
    - [NPC Sheets](#npc-sheets)
- [Quick Character Generation](#quick-character-generation)
- [Character Sheets](#character-sheets)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

#  Cota

  * [Download ZIP](https://github.com/victusfate/COTA/zipball/master)
  * [Download TAR](https://github.com/victusfate/COTA/tarball/master)
  * [View On GitHub](https://github.com/victusfate/COTA)

This project is maintained by [victusfate](https://github.com/victusfate)




You awaken, dazed and confused. Your eyes open to a submerged blur. A few
bubbles drift past the green-tinged watery background in front of your face.
You find that you cannot move your arms; after a few seconds you realize that
they've been locked down. Manacles hold them and your legs tight, another
metal belt around your waist helps to keep you in place. Trying to recall how
you ended up in this spot, you try to think back into the blankness that is
your past. The memories slowly seep back into your brain, almost painful after
what seems like thousands of years of thoughtless dreaming.

You remember your DNA being set on fire, after being captured for the secret
experiments of The Corporation; you remember being strapped down to a lab
table, looking up through the glare of overhead surgical lights at men in lab
coats, corporate logos embroidered on their pockets. The name on the logo
escapes you, and then something else catches your attention - the memory of
the faces of those two men wearing lab coats, smiling and looking happier than
Cheshire cats with birds in their mouths. Those faces burn in your brain. You
try to shake your head to clear the thought, to clear the remembered pain, and
feel it snag on something. Reaching back, you feel a great metal needle-spike
lodged into the back of your skull. After a second, cutting through the sense
of horror and panic, you dimly remember a dream, which informed you about the
neural jack they implanted in you to help in your training.

In a rush, a flood of other training dreams return to you, flowing through
your brain. Flashes of knowledge and history flow into your mind; bits of
skills twitch into your muscles. You struggle, wishing to be free of your
Cryogen Tank, and suddenly your form shifts into a metal shaft and pierces its
way out of the tank. You relax and return to your human shape. Your lungs
burn, pulling for air; because the hull of your spaceship has been breached by
millions of tiny space fragments over the last ten thousand years. And then
your form begins shifting, changing into liquid metal. You dont need air in
this form. Your brain finishes sorting through the massive pool of knowledge
it has collected, and presents the information to you.

You can remember now.

You know.

You are immortal.

#   Introduction

##   About C.O.T.A.

Welcome to the world of Children of the Ark: A Victus Role-Playing Game.

In this version of the Victus Role Playing System, you play the part of
explorers from the not-too distant future; people who were the unwilling
victims of corporate genetic tampering in the early twenty first century.
After the unlawful experimentation, you were forced into an ages-long cryo-
sleep, and sent out to explore the far reaches of the galaxy in a slow, sub-
light space ship. Your fate has left you immortal, alone, and stuck in the
deep void of space ten thousand years from the time that you were born into.
Humanity has passed you by; they have advanced and forgotten about their
ancient travelers. The world that you will wake into is far different from the
one you were forced from.

Do not worry, though. Before long, one of the dreaded Council warships that
roam human space will respond to the recently activated archaic homing beacon
lodged in the hull of your ship, and attempt to bring you ancient travelers
back home with the help of its feared angels and their ships heavy plasma
cannons.

Whether you want to go or not.

###   The World of COTA

The game is set in the far future, where humanity has spread over the vastness
of our galaxy. Humankind is nominally ruled over by a mysterious group known
as The Council, which almost never interferes in the general affairs of the
galaxy. When they do choose to intervene, however, their presence is
immediately felt, and is virtually unopposable.

Strange alien races abound, although humanity is dominant; at various points,
armies of creatures from The Warp rampage forth to feast upon humankind, and
are fought back in vicious battles. AIs help humanity manage affairs, although
the occasional AI rebellion makes for difficult times.

There are other powerful beings out there. The Council are the ultimate
boogymen; incredibly bizarre and amazing things have been attributed to them.
The aliens from the Warp are strange creatures with odd powers. You yourself
have some reality defying abilities and there are others like you out there.

##   How to Read COTA

###   Book layout

###   Notation use

##   How to Play COTA

###   What you need to play a Victus Role Playing Game

  * A d20 (20 sided dice)
  * A d6 (6 sided dice)
  * Strong liquor, a super computer, and an iron lung. (All of these are optional, but highly recommended for no good reason).
  * Brains. Preferably at least 1 fully functional one between everyone in the group. (More do help).

###   What do characters do in COTA

Characters in Children of the Ark (referred to as COTAs) are immortals with
strange powers over reality. They can manipulate energy and gravity, influence
minds, create things out of nowhere, travel vast distances in the blink of an
eye, and do many other things.

You'll quickly discover that while your immortal characters are capable of
almost anything, you'll want to develop their skills in specific areas and try
to stay out of the probing eye of the council when possible.

Oftentimes, characters carve out an enclave for them to manage in their local
area of space. Or they can become a police-type force, helping out their
locality. They can go on the warpath, or become adept politicians. They can
become masterful traders or craftsmen, or fulfill most any other position. The
only thing they tend to have in common is that they tend to rise to the top of
whatever ladder they choose to climb in their life.

###   How to play a role-playing game

####   Sample Game play

Typography aside ( → ← ↔ ⇒ ⇐ ⇔ » « – — 640×480 © ™ ® ), let us begin. Their
Ark ship and home for the last ten thousand years had retained its hull
insignia Serpent through countless assaults of galactic weather. Dr. Elliot
Lakes, mocking the vehicles almost non-existent sensor capabilities given its
mission of deep space exploration, gave its namesake in jest. The Serpents
cargo bay contained two Cryogen Tanks oriented on the points of an equilateral
triangle facing towards the ship bow. The room contained no adornments, nor
would they serve any function in this charlatan's starship.

This first immortal had been and would soon again be a brilliant engineer. He
had discovered the design flaws of the Ark ships. When Maximillion Mulligan
brought it up in a meeting Dr. Elliot Lakes quickly reflected the question as
an error in Max's calculations. That night Max was abducted from his home by
Dr. Cronus Garett's early Angel genetic variants. His disappearance was
covered up by a coincidental lab accident and Elliot Lakes carefully doctored
the forensic evidence. A haze of consciousness, painful experimentation, and
blackness haunted his thoughts. Maximillion awakened to discover himself
floating in ooze. He focused his mind as the rush of subconscious images
jolted him to full consciousness. By constructing a pocket of air he forced
the Cryogen Tank lid to shatter (no need for a roll here, simple
element/compound construction is automatic and the time required is a single
action). His body attempted to repair frozen tissues (his body reconstruction
power like Fates countered the freezing damage) as he continually Matter
Created oxygen and nitrogen to fill the room and simultaneously seal up the
tiny fissures in the cargo hull walls (multiple actions). He next constructed
small heating units (the council representative determines portable heaters
are about as difficult to construct and require similar skills to create as
Portable Washers from the equipment section. Max has Power Systems skill level
1 and although he hasnt brought it up to the current tech level, which would
require a day of studying per skill level, the device is low enough tech for
him to understand its construction. His d20 roll of 12 is added to his
(Thought + Power Systems skill + Matter Creation Level) which totals 26 given
his 12 Thought, 1 Skill level, and 1 Power Level. The device difficulty is a
20, which he as made 3 successes over taking only 1/8th of the normal time.
The base time is 1 day but his Matter Creation power level 1 reduces this base
time to 24minutes, and after factoring in the successes takes only 3 minutes.
Note that its good to have someone familiar with item creation rules on hand
to help sort out tricky construction projects on the fly, and that someone
should be the Matter Creation player). At this time the third and final
immortal passenger appeared next to his Cryogen Tank.

Inspector Cheng had been investigating the disappearance of several political
activists when he discovered that their captors were Time Warner Bio-Life
agents. Unfortunately he was spotted by the guards and rendered unconscious by
a Taser before he had a chance to escape. Inspector Cheng had always been a
careful and rational thinker and pursued his private investigation profession
with a passion seldom found in his contemporaries. Through intense mind
alteration Cheng had been granted the power of Continuum Control allowing him
to scan remote locations and self-teleport or open gates to those locations.
Upon awakening Cheng studied his surroundings without ever opening his eyes
(scan power 1 mile radius at power level 1 gaining all spatial knowledge once
per action in a brilliant fading image) and realized that the temperature was
freezing and there was a lack of oxygen from the experiences of his fellow
travelers (the council representative had the player using Cheng make an
Alertness check difficulty 18, the d20 roll of 7 + 8 Thought + 3(4) Alertness
Skill would only fail on a d20 roll of 1, an auto failure. The 3(4) Alertness
skill signifies a base skill level of 3 with 1 bonus level from Contiuum
Control, yielding an effective skill level of 4). When the heaters were
complete Inspector Cheng teleported out of the tank, free of both the manacles
and neural jack.

By chance, at that moment their craft collided with an asteroid and Inspector
Cheng was pulverized having no levels of grit and taking a whopping 20 points
of damage (the council representative chose 20 points of damage to represent a
severe high velocity impact and explosion, Cheng had a Durability of 8 and no
armor, so his DR soaked 2 points, and the other 18 knocked him past his
negative durability so his body's life was terminated). Everything turned
black and white as the Inspectors ghost form was surrounded by ship gases
exploding and peace settled over him as he subconsciously began knitting
together a ghost energy body invisible to the rest of his traveling
companions. Max was severely injured by the impact but not killed as his body
began reconstructing lost tissue, multiple fractures and severe hemorrhaging
(he had Durability of 10 and no armor, his DR soaked 3 points and the 17
remaining damage dropped him to -7 hitpoints; so he could have taken another 3
points of damage and still been alive (body death occurs when damage exceeds
negative durability); his body reconstruction power activated healing 1 point
per power level per round). The two are dead in space as the ghost of Cheng
watches. The council rep decides there's enough of an air and the temperature
caused by the collision is high enough to allow Max to slowly heal up (his
body reconstruction slowly outpaced the damage of asphyxiation and cold
space). After a few hours a great Battleship majestically approaches
responding to the initial distress beacon. Angels with jet packs soar about
the ship fragments quickly identifying and transporting the imprompto oxygen
chamber back to the Battleship docking bays for interrogation. And that is
only the beginning for the three COTA.

#   Character Generation

##   Quick Character Creation

###   Attributes

Every character has 6 main attributes:

  * Strength (STR) \- The ability to push, pull, slice, dice, chop, and carry.
  * Agility (AGI) \- The ability to move, maneuver, and manipulate.
  * Durability (DUR) \- A characters toughness and endurance.
  * Thought (THT) \- A characters intelligence, learning ability, speed of thought, and ability to react.
  * Will (WIL) \- The ability to resist mental attacks, perform well under pressure, and general focus.
  * Presence (PRS) \- The ability to react well socially, and to manipulate others.

Attribute values are determined by one of two methods:

  * Distribute 56 points amongst the attributes, with a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 12 in each.
  * Roll 4d6 for each attribute, taking the highest two dice and adding them and place in whichever attribute you like. Also add +10 floating points as desired (up to a maximum attribute of 12). You may re-roll the entire set once.

###   Powers

Characters start out with 1 level in Body Reconstruction, and 1 free power
level to spend where they wish.

List of Powers:

  * Body Reconstruction: Regeneration and the ability to return to life after death.
  * Matter Creation: The ability to create anything material.
  * Life Creation: The ability to create living creatures of all sorts.
  * Energy Control: The ability to create and manipulate various forms of energy.
  * Warp Control: The ability to survive and thrive within, and manipulate the warp.
  * Gravity Control: The ability to create and manipulate gravitic fields.
  * Continuum Control: The ability to perceive and create teleportation portals to different places.
  * Electrokinesis: The ability to manipulate technology and to transfer into technological devices.
  * Shapeshift: The ability to transform your body into various forms.
  * Influence: The ability to mentally probe, attack, control, and manipulate others.
  * Illusion: The ability to alter other's perception of reality, and construct illusory phantoms.

###   Subpowers

Characters start out with 3 picks from the subpowers. If they wish, they may
trade their extra power from above for 3 extra subpowers.

List of Subpowers:

  * Aquatic Affinity
  * The Mojo
  * The Chef
  * Photographic Memory
  * Contingency Man
  * Sharpened Senses
  * Educated
  * Sustained
  * Evil Eye
  * Telepath
  * Grit
  * Thick Skinned
  * Immunity to Poisons and Diseases
  * Tinkerer
  * Innate Pilot
  * Warlord

###   Skills

Characters have their THT times two in skill points to spend. They get 1 free
level in Literacy and Pilot Land.

Skills are listed in bold font, with their masteries following in parenthesis:

  * Literacy (Linguist)
  * Pilot Land (Professional Driver,Stunt Driver, Defensive Manuvering)
  * Acrobatica (Anime Leap, Arboreal Movement, Autododge, Roll with Impact)
  * Alertness (Panoramic Vision, Danger Sense)
  * Artistic Ability (Masterpiece)
  * Astro-Navigation/Math (Absolute Direction Sense, Linear Algebra)
  * Bargaining (Hagglorious)
  * Bio-Engineer/Geneticist (Genisis Device)
  * Chemistry (Demolitions, Alchemy)
  * Climbing (SpiderClimb)
  * Computer Systems (Create/Manipulate AI, Armageddon Virus)
  * Cooking (Food Coma)
  * Engineering - Mechanical (MasterCrafter, Pinnacle of Structural Design)
  * Engineering - Electrical (MasterCrafter, Enhanced Shields)
  * Gambling (Bluff)
  * Glassblowing (Artisan, Glass Sword)
  * Herb Lore (Medicine Man)
  * Lore (Sage)
  * Medical (Medico)
  * Melee (Hurled Weapon, QuickDraw, Weapon Barrier, Reflexive Deflection, CounterAttack, Ambidexterity)
  * Missile (Quick Shot, Gun Kata, Point Defense, Ambidexterity, Blind Shooting, Disarm, Death Blossom)
  * Musical Instrument (Calm/Engross, Master Musician)
  * Pilfer (Stage Magician)
  * Pilot Starship (Defensive Manuvering)
  * Power Systems (Efficient Drives, Warp Power)
  * Research (Sponsored, Genius)
  * Rope Use, Lassoing, Hog Tying (Hard Rope)
  * Running (Speed of the Fury)
  * Security Systems (EagleEye, CatBurgle)
  * Stealth (BackStab)
  * Storytelling (Enthrall)
  * Swimming (Aquatikhan)
  * Trade Skills (Master)
  * Tactics (Aura of Command)
  * Weapon Systems (Quick Shot, Point Defense)
  * Wood Working (Carver)

##   Attributes Details

Characters have 6 basic attributes in the Victus game system: Strength,
Agility, Durability, Thought, Will, and Presence. An average human has a score
of 4 in every attribute. The maximum a normal person can have in an attribute
is 10, although realistically, 99% of the population never reaches above a 8.
Immortals can exceed these values, although they are limited by their IPL
attribute, which starts the game at a value of 12 and increases by one for
each successful mission (awarded by the council representative/gm).

There are two ways to generate attributes. Unless the CR (Council
Representative or game master) decides otherwise, the PC may choose the method
of attribute generation.

Method 1: Starting Immortals have 56 points to distribute among their stats,
with a minimum of 1 in any stat, and a maximum of 12, which is the starting
IPL (the initial Immortal Power Level).

Method 2: Roll 4d6 for each attribute keeping the highest two die rolls and
placing their sum where you want. Add +10 floating points as desired (up to
the starting maximum of 12). You may make one complete set of rerolls but must
keep the new rolls.

Attributes can be advanced during the course of the game, using XP points.
(See Experience Points section at the end of this chapter).

###   IPL

IPL Stands for Immortal Power Level. This attribute restricts the maximum
value of any attribute or Power level, and also determines the number of
powers an Immortal has. Normal creatures dont have IPL values, with the
exception of a creature created by someone with Life Creation and assigned an
IPL.

Characters get 1 power for every 10 IPL levels, plus 1 base power (which is
always Body Reconstruction). Also, characters get 1 subpower for every 4 IPL
levels. So, a character with IPL 12 has 2 powers (Body Reconstruction and one
additional from IPL 10) and 3 subpowers (from IPLs 4,8, and 12).

####   Basic Attributes

Strength (STR): The physical ability to push, pull, slice, dice, chop, and
carry. Strength determines the base amount of damage done with a punch, or
adds to the damage done with a hand held melee weapon. Maximum lifting
capacity (equivalent to lifting over their head) is 2(Strength/2)*20. Standing
jumps can be up to a characters strength/2 in feet. Horizontal distance may be
up to the characters strength in feet. A running jump doubles these heights
and distances.

Strength

Maximum Lifting (Dead Lift) (lbs)

1

28

2

40

3

57

4

80

5

113

6

160

7

226

8

320

9

453

10

640

11

905

12

1280

13

1810

14

2560

15

3620

16

5120

17

7241

18

10240

19

14482

20

20480

21

28963

22

40960

23

57926

24

81920

25

115852

26

163840

27

231705

28

327680

29

463410

30

655360

31

926819

32

1310720

33

1853638

34

2621440

35

3707276

36

5242880

37

7414552

38

10485760

39

14829104

40

20971520

Agility (AGI): Represents manual dexterity and maneuverability, as well as the
ability to avoid something. The number of actions you may take per round is
your character agility divided by 4 rounding down with a minimum of one action
per round.

Agility

Walking Speed

Jogging Speed

Sprinting Speed

1

.5 yrd/sec

1 yrds/sec

1.5yrds/sec

2

1 yrds/sec

2 yrds/sec

3 yrds/sec

3

1.5 yrds/sec

3 yrds/sec

4.5yrds/sec

4

2 yrds/sec

4 yrds/sec

6 yrds/sec

5

2.5 yrds/sec

5 yrds/sec

7.5yrds/sec

6

3 yrds/sec

6 yrds/sec

9 yrds/sec

7

3.5 yrds/sec

7 yrds/sec

10.5yrds/sec

8

4 yrds/sec

8 yrds/sec

12yrds/sec

9

4.5 yrds/sec

9 yrds/sec

13.5yrds/sec

10

5 yrds/sec

10 yrds/sec

15yrds/sec

11

5.5 yrds/sec

11 yrds/sec

16.5yrds/sec

12

6 yrds/sec

12 yrds/sec

18yrds/sec

13

6.5 yrds/sec

13 yrds/sec

19.5yrds/sec

14

7 yrds/sec

14 yrds/sec

21yrds/sec

15

7.5 yrds/sec

15 yrds/sec

22.5yrds/sec

16

8 yrds/sec

16 yrds/sec

24yrds/sec

17

8.5 yrds/sec

17 yrds/sec

25.5yrds/sec

18

9 yrds/sec

18 yrds/sec

27yrds/sec

19

9.5 yrds/sec

19 yrds/sec

28.5yrds/sec

20

10 yrds/sec

20 yrds/sec

30yrds/sec

This score is used in conjunction with skills to strike at an opponent or to
dodge out of the way of their blows. Agility is also the base jogging movement
of an individual in yards per round (so a normal human can jog 4 yards per
second, or a little over 8.4 miles per hour). Humans may walk at half this
rate (on average 2 yards per second or 4.2 miles per hour) and sprint at 1.5
times the jogging rate (13 miles per hour). Sprinting can only be done for
5xDurability in Seconds, jogging can be done for 5Xdurability in minutes
(although the running skill can extend this time). The scale factor from
yards/sec to miles per hour is 2.1 (6 yards/sec is about 12.6 miles per hour).
Also Agility is used to determine the number of actions a character may take
in a round. The number of actions a character may take per round is equal to
their Agility/4 rounding down.

Durability (DUR): A characters overall toughness and endurance, and lets you
survive not managing to avoid someone with a lot of strength.This stat is used
to determine a characters resistance to damage. The number of Hit points a
character begins with is equal to their durability. (The Grit sub-power can
increase hit points over this amount). Also, for every three points of
Durability (rounded down), the character gains a point of DR (0 skin DR for
DUR 1 to 2, +1 skin DR for DUR 3 to 5, +2 skin DR for DUR 6 to 8, etc). This
is cumulative with other armors.

Thought (THT): Intelligence, learning ability, analytical skills, speed of
thought, ability to react well to new situations. Memory is also represented
by this attribute, but only to a lesser extent. Thought is the attribute
associated with most skills, and also determines the starting number of skill
points (THT x 2) (Example: THT 4 gives you 8 starting skill points). It is
also used for base initiative (THT + + d20, tie's are decided by THT if still
tied they roll off d20 to determine who goes before the other).

Will (WIL): Willpower. Resisting mental attacks, performing well under
pressure. This stat is also necessary for difficult or drawn out tasks, and
also represents the character's perception and attention to detail.

Presence (PRS): Deals with all social situations. A high presence allows a
character to influence others around him/her. For social interactions, roll a
d20 + PRS + SKL vs. target # ( WIL + SKL + 11) (Where SKL represents the
appropriate social skill). Additional situational modifiers [neutral 0, target
angered +4 difficulty, target happy -4 difficulty, +skill bonus if
applicable]) may apply; these are up to the GM. There are times when this
attribute is inapplicable (when arguing with your mother, or in most action
sequences for instance, although intimidation or a demand to surrender may be
possible when used in unison with an impressive act).

##   Immortal Powers

####   IPL

Immortal Power Level: starts at 12. This represents the maximum value a Stat
or power may be raised to. Note that the Influence and Density Control may
raise stats above this level (as well as any other power that yield bonus
attributes). IPL is only raised by the council representative. Normal humans
have an effective stat maximum of 10 but don't normally possess an powers
(some have been known to have subpowers). At IPL levels 10, 20, 30 etc. the
immortal gains a new primary power at power level 1 or they may gain 3
additional sub-powers. In addition the immortal gains 1 sub-power for every 4
IP levels (4, 8, 12, etc.).

IPL

Ability Gained

1

Body Reconstruction

4

Subpower

8

Subpower

10

Power

12

Subpower

16

Subpower

20

Power, Subpower

24

Subpower

28

Subpower

30

Power

All immortals start off with 1 power point worth of powers (unless the gm
decides otherwise).

For reference, a light year is 5.87849981 x 1012 miles.

Advancement after start: It costs 2X the next level to raise a power one
level. After the start of the game each level must be paid for.

  * Effective Strength: 2 per level (this also limits maximum mass/max lift). So with matter creation you might fill up the maximum available volume with whip cream, but you'd limited to a much smaller amount of adamantium. With an effective strength of 2 at level 1 you could only generate 40 pounds worth of materials (per action).
  * Range: 4000yards per power level.
  * Area of Effect: 
  * Movement Rate: 1000yards/sec per power level.  Takes 5 rounds to accelerate to full speed at 1/5th of the movement rate in yards/sec2
  * Vector Movement Rate: 10,000 times combat movement rate 
  * Damage: 2 per level. (See table below)

Power Level

Effective Strength & Base Damage

Range(yards)

Area of Effect (Radius of sphere in yards)

Movement Rate (yards/second)

Vector Space Movement Rates (yards/sec)

1

2

4000

200

1000

1.00E+007

2

4

8000

400

2000

2.00E+007

3

6

12000

600

3000

3.00E+007

4

8

16000

800

4000

4.00E+007

5

10

20000

1000

5000

5.00E+007

6

12

24000

1200

6000

6.00E+007

7

14

28000

1400

7000

7.00E+007

8

16

32000

1600

8000

8.00E+007

9

18

36000

1800

9000

9.00E+007

10

20

40000

2000

10000

1.00E+008

11

22

44000

2200

11000

1.10E+008

12

24

48000

2400

12000

1.20E+008

13

26

52000

2600

13000

1.30E+008

14

28

56000

2800

14000

1.40E+008

15

30

60000

3000

15000

1.50E+008

16

32

64000

3200

16000

1.60E+008

17

34

68000

3400

17000

1.70E+008

18

36

72000

3600

18000

1.80E+008

19

38

76000

3800

19000

1.90E+008

20

40

80000

4000

20000

2.00E+008

Bonus Skill Levels: Some powers grant Bonus Skill levels. In this case the
power level is added to the skill to determine total skill level. To increase
the skill only the next base level must be purchased. For example an
Electrokinectic with power level 6 and a Comp Systems base skill of 8 has an
effective Comp Systems skill of 14 and has gained two mastery abilities (one
at 10 and another at 14). In addition in order to raise his Comp Systems total
level he can raise his Electrokinesis power level from 6 to 7 for 14 XP
(raising an immortal power level costs 2 times the next level) or he can raise
his Comp Systems base skill from 8 to 9 for 9 XP (raising a skill simply costs
the next level). These bonus skill levels are usually noted by the base level
followed by the total level in parenthesis (i.e. Comp Systems 8(14) ). Bonus
to Skill Rolls: Here the power will add to rolls and is detailed within the
description of the power if applicable. A Matter Creationist adds 1 to his
effective skill per power level when creating items (i.e. the roll is d20 +
THT + Min Required Skill Level + Matter Creation Power Level).

Permanent Effects: Some powers that only have temporary effects may make
permanent effects by using the power as if it were 10 levels lower. So, an
immortal with Gravity Control 11 may permanently make a localized gravity
effect with Power level 1 or an Effective Strength of 2.

Power specialties: As you get more proficient in a power, you may specialize
to gain bonus abilities, or to gain certain abilities faster than others. You
may advance a specialty level up to half your total power level rounding down
(max specialty level 1, at level 2-3, max specialty level 2 at power level
4-5, etc.) Purchasing specialty ranks is like purchasing power levels, each
level costs 2x then next level in xp and every level must be purchased.
Details on individual power specialties are in power's section. Sommon common
specialties (Specialties that may be taken with several different powers) are
listed here:

  * Skilled \- Each level of this specialization adds one to a bonus skill level awarded by the power.
  * Juggernaut \- When determining the effective strength of the power, add 2 per level of this specialty (or one to the effective strength when added to base strength for damage). Some powers have variants of this power which are described below.
  * Permanence \- When determining power level of permanent abilities add one to the effective power level for each level of this specialty.
  * Area of Effect Boost  \- When determining area of effect of a power add this specialty to the power level to determine final strength and size.

###   Body Reconstruction

(Immortality)

Every Immortal has 1 free level in this power.

Body Reconstruction is the power that makes a being an Immortal. It allows
them to heal at unbelievable rates, regrow lost limbs and organs, and even
recreate a new body from scratch if the old one is destroyed.

Things to note: It takes 32 days and about half that for each power Level
above 1 to create a new body. (See table below). The new body can have any
appearance the Immortal desires. It does not have to reflect the old body.
However, unless the Immortal has the Geneticist skill (Difficulty dependent on
species), he is restricted to his own species.

Normal Healing (Including regeneration of lost body parts) occurs at 1 point
of damage per round per Power Level. In addition Immortals may concentrate on
healing and for each action sacrificed up to 1 point of damager per Body
Reconstruction level may be healed. Immortals with completely destroyed bodies
(i.e. their HP are reduced to their negative DUR value) are locked into Ghost
Form (See below) while their bodies are reconstructing.

Reconstructing bodies stay incorporeal until fully formed, at which point they
simply appear wherever the Ghost happens to be at the moment. The Ghost is
automatically attached to the body at this point.

Body Reconstruction Level

Time to create a new body

1

32 days

2

16 days

3

8 days

4

4 days

5

2 days

6

1 day

7

12 hours

8

6 hours

9

3 hours

10

1 hours

11

32 minutes

12

16 minutes

13

8 minutes

14

4 minutes

15

2 minutes

16

1 minutes

17

32 seconds

18

16 seconds

19

8 seconds

20

4 seconds

21

2 seconds

22

1 seconds

23

1 action

#####   Ghost Form

When the body of an Immortal is completely destroyed, or is damaged beyond
repair (i.e. Hit Points are reduced past -DUR, the Immortal goes into Ghost
Form. Their consciousness is transferred out of their body, and floats around
in free form, able to see into the Real World, but unable to affect it. They
are also able to see other Ghosts floating about.

While in Ghost Form, an Immortal can move about, at the rate of 10 feet per
round. They are pretty much unaffected by anything in the real world, able to
move through matter, energy, and void with equal ease. They can see and hear
into the real world, but all other senses (touch, taste, smell) are useless.
They see into the world as if they had a body with eyes at their current
location (which means that if they are located inside a wall, they aren't
going to be seeing much of anything). Also, in Ghost Form, everything is lit
as if the ambient lighting is that of dusk. This applies to brightly lit areas
as well as complete darkness.

When in Ghost Form, the Immortal automatically begins the process for the
construction of a new body. This process does not require any interaction on
the Immortals part, leaving them free to wander around and do whatever they
wish during this time although they may pause the creation at any time.

The body is created in Ghost Space, and does not exist in real space until the
Immortal transfers it over after completion. Once the body is completed, the
Immortal can leave it in Ghost Space indefinitely. When he is ready to reform
in real space, the body is instantly transferred over, and the Ghost rejoins
the new body.

####   Specialties

  * Body Energy Knitting \- Each level of this specialty adds to Body Reconstruction level when determining how long it will take to reform a new living body and have it ready to reintegrate into normal space.
  * Fast Healing \- Each level of this specialty adds to Body Reconstruction when determining how many hit points automatically heal per round and per action sacrificed concentrating.

###   Matter Creation

(Mass)

Duration: Permanent.

Immortals with Matter Creation have the power to create something out of
nothing, despite the fact that reality says it cant be done. Using Matter
Creation, an Immortal can create anything from a lump of gold to air for
breathing in space to complex machinery. Complex items require both knowledge
(in the form of the appropriate skill) and time to create. The difficulty
varies depending on the object; a toaster is much easier to create than a
spaceship. The object can be made anywhere in the Area of Effect (yielding an
effective range equal to the normal Area of Effect instead of the default
range).

Things to note:

  * Living matter cannot be created with Matter Creation. Food can be created, however, provided that it is dead.
  * Cronium, the ingredient for long-range hyper drive engines, cannot be generated, as part of it exists outside our dimension.
  * It is possible to make many different types of matter simultaneously.
  * Add +1 bonus skill levels to Engineering per matter creation level.
  * When making shells/walls of adamantium (nice defensive tactic) for each effective strength point 1DR and 1HP is given to the wall per action (i.e. Matter Creation level 2, effective strength 4, 4DR and 4HP.
  * Items cannot be created in other objects (including living creatures). The exception is objects generated in an atmosphere (gas is displaced). This does allow for actions such as poisoning a target (by creating poison all around them) but not dropping a bunch of rubber cement in their chest cavity. For matter created in as such an attack (poisons), use the missile skill to determine whether or not the attack is successful; the damage is the power level*2, ignoring armor. Damage resistance due to the targets durability is considered. The onset time for these specific poisons is considered to be 1 round. The debilitating effects are generated immediately (coughing hacking); unless a tough will check is made, the target loses one action per round.

####   Specialties

  * Enhanced memory \- each level purchased of this specialty adds two the maximum number of item types you can create instantly (still limited by mass/skill requirements) and stacks with the Photographic memory subpower.
  * Fast Creator \- each specialty level purchased is added to matter creation level when determining item construction times on the table in the section labelled Making Equipment with Matter Creation.
  * Prolific Creator \- for each specialty level purchased, the Matter Creationist can construct that many copies of an object in the normal time it takes them to construct one such object. This can't be combined with an attack to make more lethal poison or to affect a larger area, as this specialty is still subject to the mass and area of effect restriction (can't produce more than the effective strength of the power will allow). This specialty is perfect for mass producing equipment to outfit an army… of robots that you mass produce! It also complements Photographic Memory quickslots for items.

####   Quick Item Creation Rules

Matter Creation and all required skills to create an item must be at the
minimum level for that item. No skill check is required for items made using
the standard amount of time (with the matter creation modifier) for that item.
Custom equipment must be made using the more complex rules detailed in the
equipment section. This can allow a Matter Creationist to mass produce similar
average grade equipment. In addition if a Matter Creationist minimum
construction roll automatically equals or succeeds a target objects
construction difficulty, he may forego rolling as each item is assumed to be
fully functional.

The sub-power Photographic Memory allows near instanteous item creation as
long as it's mass can be created in a single action, the immortal may
instantly make that object in a single action.

###   Life Creation

(Life)

Duration: Permanent.

Immortals with Life Creation can create other life forms and creatures. This
is extremely useful for those that want an army of monsters to do their
bidding. Some very complicated life forms can be generated with this power.
Bio-Engineer/Geneticist checks must be made for unfamiliar or new life forms
that are created, with difficulty increasing the more unfamiliar or bizarre a
creature is. The time to create a new life form is 1 second per creature point
(see details below).

If intelligent creatures are created they have their own will. Although they
are inclined to be obedient towards you when first created, this can rapidly
change. Influence or Presence help immensely with controlling these types of
creatures.

Things to note:

  * Newly created creatures have no knowledge base, although they can be created with very strong instincts. Neural jacks can be implanted to assist in teaching a new creature desired skills. Jacks can not be created with life creation; they must be bought or built.
  * If Creations have STR 0 they are paralyzed, DUR 0 they never live, or AGI 0 they can only flail around sadly. THT 0 (instinctual) creatures have trouble following complex orders, WIL 0 creatures are very malleable but will not follow orders for long, and PRS 0 creatures are butt ugly freaky scary things.
  * Creations have maximum attributes equal to the effective strength of the power (2*Power Level)
  * Creations have maximum power levels equal to two less than their creators.
  * New creatures have 6 X Life Creation level in Creature points.
  * Each stat point or sub-power costs one creature point
  * Sub-powers can be given at the cost of 1 creature point each, even sub-powers not possessed by the creating immortal.
  * Each immortal power level purchased costs 2 creature points, although only powers that the creator possesses can be given to creatures.
  * Creatures get starting skills based on their THT, but can raise skills normally as an NPC after that.
  * A skill check is needed to create a creature successfully every time a new entity is made. The check is d20 + THT + Geneticist Skill vs. Total Creature Points/4 (round down) + 10. If 1 + THT + Geneticist Skill is greater than or equal to the difficulty, the lifeform can be automatically created in the normal creation time without any need for a die roll. Failed checks result in a life form, which dies upon creation without constant medical supervision, and can be rather badly mutated. This can cause natives to weep even more than pollution.
  * Modifications to existing mortal creatures can be done as well (see below)

For example, a Life Creator with power level 6, and Body Reconstruction 3
could create a Creature with Life Creation 4 (8 power points), Body
Reconstruction 1 (2 power points), and 26 stat points (total creature points
36) with a max stat of 12, and maximum power levels equal to the creators
minus two. Now assume that Life Creationist has a Thought of 4, and a base
genetics skill of level 4(10 total with bonus levels). The above sample
creature is a maximized creature and uses the highest possible power points
possible. This total is Power Level*6 or 36 creature points. The creation roll
is d20 + 4 THT + 10 Skill vs. difficulty 19 (36/4 + 10).

Modifications to existing mortal creatures is also possible, (only on willing
targets) but the difficulty is damn near impossible and failure results in an
excruciating death to the target. Once creatures are given the body
reconstruction power further modifications are impossible. This takes the
standard time of 1 second per creature point of the final form.

  * Life Creation power level is added to the Geneticist skill as bonus levels (they ride on top of the Genetics skill level purchased, giving mastery abilities sooner).
  * Life Creationists can heal 2 points per power level per action to any living target (including himself and other immortals). In addition they can revive recently fallen mortal creatures (immortals have an essence which is beyond the scope of this power). The time that a mortal creature can be dead for is 2Power Level in days. If the body is missing half or more of its original mass (i.e. horribly mutilated), or if a living creature is missing limbs, a Near Impossible difficulty check must be made to successfully heal the target (roll d20 + THT + Geneticist Skill vs. difficulty 30).

####   Specialties

  * Fast Creator \- each level of Fast Creator allows creation of creatures 12seconds faster than normal to a minimum of 1 action per creature created.
  * Mutator \- Each level in this specialty adds 2 to the bio-genetics skill check to modify an existing mortal creature. In addition when doing modifications to existing mortal creatures, reduce the time taken by up to 12seconds per specialty level, although each modification takes at least 1 action.
  * Symbiosis \- Create bio-organic equipment to be grafted onto organisms. Each level in this specialty allows the Life Creationist to amalgamate an additional living creature onto an existing creature (mortal or even immortal). The benefit of this Symbiosis over creating something like bio-organic armor (which be done with the base power) is that the creatures can use the better of their attributes and power levels when acting in unison. For example a Life Creationist who is IPL 12, Life Creation level 2, and Symbiosis level 1, can now make two creatures that are merged together, one with a Str 10,Dur 1,Agi 1,Tht,Wil,Pre 0 and another with Str 1, Dur 1, Agi 10,Tht,Wil,Pre 0 → when merged the creatures can act as a single creature with Str 10, Dur 1, Agi 10, Tht, Wil, Pre 0. When a merged creature is injured, that damage is divided evenly among the total merged, rounding up.
  * Psycho Doc \- Each level of this specialty adds to Life Creation Power Level when determing the total amount that may be healed per action.
  * Heal Area Specialization \- Each level in this specialty allows the immortal to heal (up to one point per Life Creation Level) to any chosen targets in the area specified by this specialty level (see area of effects for immortal powers above using specialty level to determine size).

###   Energy Control

(Energy)

Duration: Concentration.

Immortals with Energy Control are living dynamos. They can be walking pillars
of destruction at higher levels. They are capable of tasks such as blasting
targets with beams of destruction, protecting themselves with force fields and
energy absorption fields, flying by launching energy out of their body as a
form of thrust, and similar tasks.

Things to note:

  * Attack damage is 2 per level of Energy Control (Standard Effective Strength).
  * As Energy Control immortals launch energy missiles almost constantly they gain +1 bonus missile skill level per level of Energy Control (this rides on top of the normal missile skill and allows the gaining of masteries sooner).
  * Melee Attacks can be made with the power and damage is the greater of 2 per Energy Control level or Str+ Energy Control Level. (This can take the form of hitting an opponent with a charged fist or anything similar).
  * Area of effect attacks may be made, damage is equal to the Energy Control level of the immortal (half of Effective Strength, in other words) and no extra damage is done for targets who are hit well (with multiple successes). The area of effect is that listed for all powers ( 10power level foot radius).
  * Upon reaching level 5 they can mimic the effects of cronium power, allowing ships to travel 1000 light years per day without using up any cronium.
  * Energy Absorption soaks 2 points of damage per power level a round automatically (character determines when, and this may occur after other of damage resistance/mitigation occur), and an additional 2 points per power level per action expended in absorption. The absorbed energy is dissipated harmlessly into the surrounding region by the Immortal. Energy absorption can be done before the characters initiative, as it is an inherent reaction. Kinetic, potential and pure energy attacks can be absorbed (note that mental attacks cannot be absorbed).
  * Permanent Energy sources may be created with an effective strength of Power Level - 5. To see what this effective strength corresponds to in terms of power, see the power ratings table below.
  * They may shut down all power sources within the area of effect centered at the Immortal whose power rating is less than the Immortals Energy Control Level. It requires an action and a successful skill check of Energy Control Level + Will + d20 vs. 11 + (Total Power Rating of all power sources to be shut down). The Energy Control immortal may choose which power sources within the area of effect he wishes to shut down. The energy is shut down as long as the Energy Control immortal continues to concentrate (sacrifices one action per round). Examples of Power Ratings (the difficulty of the item to be shutdown):

Example of Power Sources

Power Rating

Small Energy Weapons & Items (pistols, rifles,heavy rifles)

Weapon Damage

Hover Car Fusion Engine, Power Armor, a Cannon

14

Heavy Robot Armor, a Tank or Cronium Weapons

20

Main Engines of a Space Ship

16+7*SizeClass

Main Engines of a Space Station or the Power Plant of a City

58

An entire planet's power

64

####   Specialties

  * Controller \- When attempting to shut down power sources this specialty level may be added to the skill check. So the final check would now be Energy Control Level + Will + Controller Level + d20 vs. 11 + Total Power Rating of all power sources to be shut down.
  * Field Specialist \- Each level of Field Specialization adds 2 points of damage per level on top of the normal energy absorption ability (once per round for free, and then once per action expended). So a Energy Control Level 5 Immortal with Field Specialization level 2 may absorb up to 14 damage for free once per round, and once per action expended.
  * Blaster Each level of this specialty adds 2 to the base damage of the blast power or one to the effective strength when added to base strength for damage (see Juggernaut common specialty).
  * Speed Freak Each level of this specialty increases is added to the Energy Control Level when determining movement rate.

###   Warp Control

(Warp)

Duration: Concentration.

The immortal with this power has an innate understanding and control of the
adjacent dimension where time/space is compressed. This chaotic alternate
universe can be very dangerous for the uninitiated. An immortal with this
power can survive in the vacuum of space or in the horror of jump space
indefinitely. You can protect others within your area of effect from the
damaging vacuum of space/jump space. You can tear a fracture into warp space.
In addition immortals add their Master of the Warp power level to their
astrogation skill. It can be very treacherous to travel without this power
through jump space. The difficulty for traveling more than 10 light years per
jump requires a navigation check target number of 21 + 1 per 100 light years, and
failure indicates a random error in destination of 100 light years per point
failed by while critical failure results in the vehicle being navigated into a
sun.

  * Master's of the warp can fully communicate with and are treated friendly by native species of jump space (Xelomites won't attack them, recognizing them as their own and living ships will respond positively to them, although it doesn't grant them any special control).
  * Another power is the ability to create a jump space pseudopod from a rift (also functions in jump space) that can reach up to the area of effect. The pseudopod, or tendril, as they are also referred to, is made from generic jumpspace mass/bio-matter. The pseudopod has the standard Effective Strength. At the end of this pseudo pod is a sensory node that the immortal can see/hear/touch/taste/talk normally through in real time (unlike Continuum Control's scan where you automatically know everything within the area of effect at the normal range as a fading 3D image). The pseudopod is treated as an extension of the immortal and any damage it takes is effectively taken by the Immortal. It shares his dodge, to hit rolls, armor, shields (all equipment) etc. and counts as line of site for remote attacks.
  * Add Warp Level to Melee Skill as bonus levels (they ride on top of the Melee skill level purchased giving mastery abilities sooner).
  * Add +2 bonus skill Levels to Astrogation/Math Skill as bonus levels (they ride on top of the Astrogation/Math skill level purchased giving mastery abilities sooner). Never critically fail Astrogation checks.
  * Open a Gate into/out of Jump Space Survive in space/jump space and protect others within your area of effect
  * Automatically Sense Cronium up the normal power range (10Power Level in miles)
  * Create Sensory/Communication Pseudopod up to 10Power Level-1 miles (area of effect) from a jump space rip (either created by the power or within Warp Space)

####   Specialties

  * Tendril Specialist Each level of this specialization adds 2 to the effective strength of the other worldy tendrils of jumpspace that the Warpmaster can control (see Juggernaut common specialty).
  * Summoner This specialization allows the Master of the Warp to summon automatically friendly warp creatures. Each level of the specialization allows additional Xelomites to be summoned (per action). The maximum number that may be summoned at any time is equal to this specialty level * 3. Instead of summoning additional Xelomites, in exchange for 15 normal xelomites a Xelomite Lord may be summoned. In exchange for 9 normal xelomites a bio-ship may be summoned with stats of an average Heavy Warship (see equipment section for details) capable of cronium speed travel.
  * Gate Specialist Each level of this specialization adds to the Master of Warp level when determining gate size and protecting others in the void of space.

###   Gravity Control

(Gravity)

Duration: Concentration/Permanent

This power grants Immortals the ability to control the force of gravity. They
can use gravity to achieve many different effects, such as bringing remote
objects to themselves and manipulating objects at a range (telekinesis),
bringing themselves to remote points (flight), changing the effect of gravity
on an object (mass/density control) or within an area (requires concentration,
which is one action per round), etc. Things to note:

  * As Gravity Control immortals constantly manipulate objects at a range they gain +1 bonus Acrobatica skill level per level of Gravity Control (this rides on top of the normal Acrobatica skill and allows the gaining of masteries sooner).
  * Gravitic attraction can be controlled on a fine enough level to effectively grant the user telekinesis (making one object attracted to your hand, punching someone at a range). See Effective Strength for the amount of weight that can be lifted in this manner or damage done.
  * Gravity attacks/blasts work as normal. Roll d20 + AGI + Missile vs. AGITarget + Acrobatica + 11).
  * For fine control, things like wielding weapons or picking locks, effective strength drops to the gravity control level.
  * Gravitic Lock Down: Simply a telekinetic grapple using an effective strength of Power Level. (See grapple rules under combat). A successful attack must be made to initiate the Lock Down. In this way a gravity master can lock down multiple targets by using his power level as the effective strength for the grapple.
  * When using the power to change the density of an object, you can only use it once for each direction of change (i.e. if you make an object denser, then you can only make it lighter after that. You can't keep on increasing or decreasing its density-it's not cumulative). And the maximum change is 2 Durability per power level. Only non-living objects can be affected this way, with the exception of the immortal, who can affect himself without having to make any density control checks. Density changes will alter the mass of the target by the Maximum Lift value of the Effective Strength. (Note: For ships, this isn't a huge different until you get to really high levels). Raising something's durability by 1 point raises its mass by 10 pounds, raising its durability by 2 points raises its mass 40 pounds, 3 points 90 etc. As a rule of thumb, a safe increase at higher levels is for an immortal to raise their DURABILITY by 1 less then the allowable limit of the power so they can easily move themselves around and carry a large amount of weight without being encumbered (note at level 1-4 the mass increase is not too significant).
  * Density changes of an object affect its Durability. Density changes are permanent until once again modified by Gravity Control. You can change the DUR of an object by the effective strength of Gravitic Control possessed (2 per power level). To modify a material, roll Power Level + d20 vs. DURTarget + 11. An object may only have its DUR changed once per direction. You can only lower the DUR once. However, if you raise it back up, you can bring it back down. You just can't “stack” changes in any direction). Non-living objects get +1DR for every 3 Durability rounded down, and +1HP per Durability point increased. As an example, you can change the density of your MECH body armor, increasing it's DR (which may render it immobile, depending on its STR). After this, you can only lower the density. No skill check is necessary for modifying your character's Durability.
  * Gravitic flight can be achieved by making yourself attracted to a point in the direction you wish to travel. See Movement Rate for the maximum achievable speed.
  * Gravitic attraction can be set up between any two points (no mass needs to be present at either point). Entire objects can be defined as one point.
  * Gravitic pathways can be established, allowing for things like rivers doing loops in the air, etc. See Effective Strength for the maximum load that can be put on a pathway per action.
  * It is more difficult for a Grativity Controller to affect an area than a single target or object. When using Gravity in an area the Gravity Master has an effective strength of 1 point per power level much like Energy Control.
  * To make a permanent gravity well the Gravity Master uses half his power level - 5 to calculate the effective strength for affecting a single target. A permanent area of effect Gravity Well would have an effective strength of (power level - 5)* .5 rounded up.

####   Specialties

  * Gravitic Strength \- Each level of this specialty adds 2 to the effective strength and damage of gravity control powers (see Juggernaut common specialty).
  * Monstrous \- Density monster! Each level of this specialization adds 2 the maximum durability a density controller may increase their own density to, without any additional mass or weight. So a Gravity Controller level 6 with 2 levels of Monstrous can comfortably increase their durability by 11 (base power 6*2 -1 to allow for easy movement) + 4 more or +15 DUR points.

###   Continuum Control

(Space)

Duration: Instantaneous / Concentration

Through sheer force of will alone, an Immortal with this power can bend the
space-time continuum. This power lets you gain a 3D perfect image about any
location in range, and be aware of what is there, no matter how well shielded
or protected from detection (unless cloaked by the illusion power which is
described later). It also lets you take yourself to that location instantly by
creating a rift and moving through it

  * One scan may be made for free per round
  * Contiuum controllers can scan once for free every time they open a gate/teleport. So teleporting/gating yourself and willing targets requires a single action.
  * Note that immortals with this power are so familiar with its usage that they may create the Gate touching their physical outline allowing them to teleport under any circumstances (this special ability does not apply to teleporting others, they must be able to traverse the Rift).

The immortal can effectively travel across vast reaches of space with a
flicker of a thought. At higher levels, you can even create permanent portals
between spots, allowing anyone to cross through at any time. The only defense
against a Dimensional Folding is a unique technology held by the council which
creates a force field that cannot be Gated through (these are very rare, but
necessary defense for massive Cronium storage areas or other equivalent
Council secrets).

  * Teleported objects maintain their previous momentum (by definition this is in the direction of the Gate as they have just moved through it). Gates are always created with their openings facing the immortal; they manifest the dimensional fold from themselves outward. On the side opposite the gate creator only darkness is visible and objects may simply pass through the side without effect.
  * Permanent portals are created at an effective Power Level - 5. Use the modified power level for Gate area and distance.
  * Objects that dont pass completely through the gate are not transferred. Gates are made in the same inertial frame as the creator, so if they are created on a ship, they move with the ship or if they are created on a planets surface, they move with the planet.

Scan will make the Immortal aware of everything within the target area, as if
viewing a 3D snapshot of the area of effect. Technological cloaking fields are
immediately scanned through; things cloaked with the Immortal Illusion power
require a contested roll (see below). Scan uses Range for distance, and Area
of Effect to determine area. The Scan area may be changed by using an action
to target a new scanning volume (unless Gating, in which one free scan is
given per gate). Scan does NOT count as line of sight for other powers or
missile attacks unless a gate is opened. Minimum gate size is 1 foot radius.
Space-Time Folding uses Range for maximum distance, Area of Effect (just the
cross section) for size of the Gate (there is no mass limitation, if you can
fit an object through the Gate, you may teleport it). Note that at level 8, a
Gate could be made large enough in front of an Earth Sized planets orbit, to
transfer it. The scan area and range is also the normal listed for powers
centered at a point within normal range.

  * Note that other spaceships may be teleported with this power with several limitations. The ships must be travelling in roughly the same direction as immortal is facing, because Gate opening always faces the immortal. In addition the immortal must be behind or on the vehicle or object so that he can create a Gate in front of it. Then a to hit roll must be made to get the Gate in front of the object close enough so that it cant easily steer around it but far enough away so that the Gate exists before the vehicle passes through that spot (In the case of attempting to send an unwilling vehicle through the gate). In game terms it requires a hit roll with a bonus added to the defenders evade of 10 after the Continuum controller has properly aligned himself.
  * Other people may be teleported against their will. To teleport others against their will they must be physically hurled through a created portal. An immortal can do this with three actions. One action must be a melee attack to grab, then a strength test is required (Teleporters Strength + d20 vs. Targets Strength + 11). If the strength test succeeds the immortal may then create a portal and hurl the target through (2 more actions).
  * Normal objects require no difficulty (only the required mass and volume limitations).
  * All gates are 2-way portals.
  * The Power Level of Teleportation/Scan is added as bonus skill levels to the Alertness skill (yielding masteries sooner).
  * A scan does not count as a line-of-sight (required for many attacks) except for opening a gate to that location. A Gate to the target area does, however. Note: Due to the fact that the gate is a physical phenomena, forming it will count as the surprise action in case the target is unaware of its arrival. After it forms, Initiative should be rolled if the gate is being used in a combat situation.
  * An Immortal can keep on scanning an area for as long as they desire. It takes 1 action to scan a volume equal to the area of effect. This can be anywhere within the maximum range. Scanning gives an immortal a visual knowledge of everything that exists in that cube, including the appearances of people, text on a page of a closed book, the location of a hidden passageway, and technologically cloaked items. If something within the scanned area has been cloaked via the Immortal power of Illusion, a contest of Powers occurs WIL + Alertness + d20 vs. AGI + Stealth*2 + 11. Note that Continuum control adds to Alertness and Illusion/Cloak adds to stealth.

####   Specialties

  * Omniscience \- When determing the area of effect or volume that may be scanned with this power, add each specialty level to Contiuum Control level.
  * Gate Mastery \- This specialty adds to the Contiuum Control level when determining the maximum size of a Gate.
  * Range Mastery \- This specialty adds to the Contiuum Control level when determining the maximum range between gates or personal teleports.

###   Electrokinesis

(Machine)

Duration: Concentration

Immortals with this power are supernaturally gifted at manipulating machines
and technological devices. They are able to bypass computer security systems,
generate new programs at will, control vehicles and starships just by thinking
about it, etc. They can even transfer themselves into machines, or travel via
conductive materials or even energy waves after shifting into an electronic
form.

In order take control of a device it must be within the area of effect of the
power and a contest is made. If it is a computer operated device the
Electrokinectic must bypass security develop a THT/WIL and Comp Systems
equivalent for the security system). For devices which are not computer
operated control is automatically gained. Electrokineticists get an additional
+1 tht per power level minus their IPL! * 10^.5324 ceilined /their computer
use skill (with bonus)*their money.

Things to note:

  * Effective Strength is used to determine how much mass can be converted to electrical form. Electrokinesis levels are added as bonus levels to the Comp Systems skill (yielding mastery abilities sooner).
  * Movement in electronic form is determined by the Movement Rate specified at the top of the powers section.
  * To take control of a mechanical/electrical system skill test must be made of Electrokinesis Power level + Will + d20 vs. Strength of the Target Object + 11. This is one step beyond the power of the Energy Control power which can simple shut down devices. Success grants the Electrokinesis user control of the target(s) as long as they concentrate (sacrifice one action per round).
  * Multiple objects can be controlled in which case the highest strength is used and add +1 to the difficulty for every doubling in number of targets (+1 for 2, +2 for 4 etc). When controlling multiple objects they can act in unison using a single action (can't split up attacks against many different targets). Once controlled an object(s) can be shut down as a free action. When manipulating an object use the Immortals stats and skills to calculate piloting. Range and Area of effect must be considered by there isn't a mass requirement.

Examples of actions an Electrokinectic could take:

  * Overloading a plasma weapon
  * Controlling or Shutting down a vehicle
  * Overloading a Power Reactor

####   Specialties

  * Machine Command \- When taking control of mechanical or electrical systems add Machine Command specialty levels to roll to determine success. So the skill roll is now Electrokinesis Power Level + Machine Command Level + Will + d20 vs. Strength of the Target Object + 11.
  * AI Empathy \- Each level of this specialty adds 2 to Presence when dealing with AI's and will often times cause AIs to become non-hostile to this immortal.
  * Electronic Form Mastery \- Each level of this specialty increases maximum speed when in Electronic Form as well as adding to THT and WIL when in computer combat.

###   Shapeshift

(Body)

Duration: Permanent.

Shapeshifting Immortals have the ability to transform their physical selves
into virtually unlimited different shapes. They can reform their bodies into
structures made out of metal, organic blob-like beings, change their facial
features to make themselves look like someone else, add on natural defensive
armor, etc.

Things to note:

  * The Immortal can shapeshift into forms that allow him to fly at normal movements rates (even exoatmosphere but usually require studying bioships)
  * Shapeshifters have such control over themselves they can even shift their items/equipment/armor with them into their various forms retaining all utility of DR/Shield bonuses (although sensors could still register such energies if they're active). The maximum mass of anything shifted with the Shapeshifter is up to their carrying compacity (use their STR attribute).
  * Forms that dont require breathing and are resistant to temperature variations; may be used to allow space survival indefinitely.
  * Shapeshift levels are added as bonus levels to the melee skill (gaining masteries sooner).
  * Any form can be assumed, even partial changes for different body parts, as long as the mass remains constant and within the area of effect of the power. (This can allow for a very dense insect, or a hollow, gaseous giant).
  * Forms with natural attack modes and armor can be generated (see below).
  * Matter separated from the Shifter quickly reverts and dissolves (2Power level in rounds). Each willing separation inflicts its mass fraction to the immortal in hitpoints. So a 200lb immortal who creates a 5 pound leather pack, takes 1/20th of his total hitpoints in damage. The object remains indefinitely.  Only simple items can be constructed with this power (containers, statues, repairing a breech)
  * For forms or partial body shifts (i.e. a sword extending from the hand) that involve melee attack modes (biting, claws, blades, etc), the damage done is the Immortals Strength +1 per level of Shapeshifting (STR + LevelShapeshift) or, if greater Shapeshift Effective Strength (Power Level * 2). Shapeshifter's reach is  is also the maximum area the shapeshifters body can cover and is defined under powers. 
  * May encapsulate other willing vehicles or characters.  Use the higher field+armor total (either the encapsulated target or the shapeshifter may be in control).  When one is hit, both suffer the damage (independently subtract their skin + durability DR).

The Immortal gets +1 to DR per level of Shapeshift as he strengthens his
physical form/doubles vital organs etc. This is not effective against mental
attacks. This DR is cumulative with all forms of armor and other powers
(Density Increase, Energy Absorption).

####   Specialties

  * Vicious \- Each level of this specialty adds 2 to the effective strength and damage that can be inflicted or one to the effective strength when added to base strength for damage (see Juggernaut common specialty above).
  * Tough \- Each level of this specialization causes the Shapeshifter's immortal form to be much even more tough adding +1 to DR per level.
  * Grit Master \- (Duplicate Organs) Each level of this specialization adds one bonus level to Grit when determining hit points.
  * Inconcievable \- When determining maximum speed and area of effect this specialty level may be added to Shapeshifter Power Level.

###   Influence

(Mind)

Duration: usually 1 round + 1 round for every success (A success is every 2
over the target #, 2 success are 4 over the target #, etc.) or permanent for
psychic surgery.

Influence is effectively the ability to manipulate others minds. An Immortal
with Influence is capable of picking up the thoughts of others, changing their
memory of past events, affecting their emotions and judgments, mentally
blasting an opponents brain to do damage, and even control the autonomous and
voluntary bodily functions of their targets. They can mentally reprogram their
targets with submerged commands to surface at a predetermined time, alter
their personalities in subtle or blatant ways, or shut down their ability to
heal. Line of sight is required for this power (not cameras or other powers).

Things to note:

  * Mental blast effectively attempts to lobotomize the target. Does Influence - (Willtarget/3) in damage. Attack normally as missile attack. This is a permanent effect.
  * Knock Out d20 + Influence vs. Will + 11. Duration is 1 round + 1 round per success over the target #. The target instantly feels most influence attacks.
  * To have an effect that lasts longer than the standard duration, Mental Surgery is required.
  * Influence power level is added to the presence stat. This applies in all situations.
  * Mental surgery is a difficult operation that permanently changes the mental structure of the target. This is a very difficult task, and requires a roll of d20 + Influence vs. WillTarget+11 for each change to the targets mentality. Mental surgery can only be performed on unconscious or restrained victims and requires 1 minutes or more. Mental surgery has short duration on immortals (an hour or so) in any case.
  * Picking up surface thoughts is a far easier task. It can be accomplished with a roll of d20 + Influence + Will vs. Will Target + Influence Target (if applicable) + 11. The game master is encouraged to allow the simple scans to function automatically.
  * More detailed information requires a roll though and may become more difficult. Implanting surface thoughts, or the power of suggestion can be accomplished with a roll of d20 + Influence vs. Targets Will + Influence (if applicable) + 11. The duration for simple suggestions is 1 round + 1 round for every success (maximum duration on another immortal about an hour, not that this should ever occur, thats 3600 successes people!)
  * At power level 6 effects may be made permanent by using the power with a penalty of 5 levels. This can allow permanent suggestions etc. (except for immortals which recover in an hour or so).

####   Specialties

  * Precise Lobotomy \- (Free your mind) - Erases memories (may include powers, eiditic memory, etc. Game effect - gives back XP) Each level of this specialty allows the Influence Immortal to wipe the memories from another willing creature, including other immortals in such a way as to free up 2xp per specialty level or swap 2 quick creation slots per specialty level. The maximum amount of xp returned limits what powers and skills may be affected with this specialty (i.e. can't get a target to forget a level that costs more than the xp affected).
  * Mind Flayer \- Add 2 to the effective strength for mental blast damage and 1 to knock out rolls per specialization level (a slight modification of the Juggernaut common specialty listed earlier).
  * Coolness Field \- (Influence booster) Each level of specialization permanently adds 2 bonus attribute points to the Presence of the immortal (like the stat boost of the power can go beyond IPL).
  * Puppetry \- This specialization allows a special Puppetry attack which allows complete control of a target for a few moments. The difficulty of this check is d20 + 2*Puppetry + Influence vs. 2 * Targets Will + 2* Targets Influence (if applicable) + 11. The duration of this power is one action + one action per success made on this roll. When this attack succeeds the Influence immortal's body goes limp.

###   Illusion

(Senses)

Duration: Concentration

This power lets Immortals control what others can see and sense. They can make
completely believable illusions around them, not only fooling people but
machines, cameras, and sensors as well. They can even use this power to make
themselves and those around them disappear, effectively cloaking them.

Things to note:

  * The Illusion can occupy the full Area of Effect, and can occur anywhere within the Range. Illusions can cover any and all senses (see below). There is a chance that an illusion may be detected (see below).
  * The Illusion & Cloak power level is added to the stealth skill as bonus skill levels ( masteries are achieved sooner).
  * The illusion must be attached to a mass to be in the same inertial frame (aka move with a planet or ship). If the mass is destroyed then so is the illusion. If someone sees through the illusion (see below) they can determine where the illusion is attached to, or in other cases it may be obvious.
  * Technologically cloaked items get a +4 bonus to their Deflection (Evade & Parry) if they can be detected and fired at. They are not normally visible at all, except for a very slight rippling effect at the edges of ones vision (machines cant sense this). But characters with the Illusion/Cloak power are more able to conceal their presence from the senses of others, and gain a +1 bonus to their Deflection per power level (minimum +4 as their basic cloak is as good as the best cloaking devices). If they are spotted (see below) or make an aggresive or otherwise comprimising action they can be attacked normally.
  * To detect a cloaked item, a Perception/Will check is needed unless the cloaked individual attacks or acts in a manor that would give away his presence (auto detection but the Cloaker still gets the Evasion bonus). In either case a stealth roll is then checked by whoever is watching/listening, Alertness + WIL + d20 vs. Stealth Skill Level + AGI + 11.
  * In order to successfully see through an illusion a subject must roll Alertness + WIL + d20 vs. Illusionist'sINT + IllusionPowerLevel + 11. Note: You only use the Will of the target with the highest Will if a group is being affected with an added bonus of 1 for every doubling of the number in the group (+1 the alerness check for 2 people, +2 to the alertness check for 4 people etc.)
  * Extra checks / higher difficulties may be required for Illusions using multiple senses, or if the illusion is just ridiculous (a severe penalty could be a +4 bonus to the Alertness check to see the illusion for what it is), but imagine the glory of creating totally bizzare illusions that others believe to be wholly reality.
  * No skill or stat imitated by the Illusionist via Illusion may be greater than the Power Level * 2.

####   Specialties

  * Incredible Illusions Add 2 to the maximum attribute or skill that may be mimicked per specialty level (Illusions version of Juggernaut common specialty).
  * Cloak Master \- Each level of this specialization is added to stealth skill, and +1 bonus to their Deflection.
  * More real illusions \- In order for a target to perceive or see through an illusion, each level of this specialty adds 2 to the difficulty. So to see through an illusion they must roll Alertness + WIL + d20 vs. Illusionist’sINT + IllusionPowerLevel + 2*More real illusions level + 11

###  Martial Warfare

(Combat)

Duration: continuous

For those players who are not easily impressed with the glittery showboating
of the other powers there is an answer: Martial Warfare! This power makes an
immortal the ultimate military fighting machine. Their reflexes are beyond
comprehension as well as unmatched prowess in acrobatica, alertness, melee,
missile, and tactics. This is one of the few powers that may raise attributes
over the IPL of the immortal (the others are Influence and Gravity/Density
Control). Martial Warfare immortals also excel with excellent perception, will
power and physical toughness.

  * For each level of the Martial Warfare power the character gains one bonus level of Acrobatica, Alertness, Melee, Missile, and the Tactics skills.
  * The Martial Warfare character get’s a one time bonus of 3 to their agility.
  * For each even level of the power (Power levels 2,4,6) a bonus point of Durability and Will is gained.
  * These bonus levels ride on top of the normal attribute and does not affect the ability of an immortal to buy up their attributes to their current Immortal Power Level.

####  Specialties

  * Super Skilled \- Each level of this specialization adds one bonus skill level to two of the following skills: Acrobatica, Alertness, Melee, Missile, Tactics. This specialty is a enhanced version of the Skilled common specialty (can’t take both).
  * Ultimate Agility \- For each 2 levels of this specialization an AGI bonus point is gained.
  * Enhanced Toughness \- For each 2 levels of this specialization, an attribute bonus of 1 is added to WIL and DUR (1 point per 2 specialty levels).

##   SubPower Details

Starting immortals may choose 3 sub-powers in addition to their primary power.
Additional sub-powers are gained after every 4 IPL levels. When creating new
characters you may sacrifice 6 Permanent THT and lose the ability to raise
your characters THT. In exchange your character gains an additional 3 sub-
powers. Of course your characters initial skills will be lower (6 THT * 2 = 12
less starting skill points).

  * Aquatic Affinity: This sub-power yields +4 bonus levels (these levels ride on top of the purchased levels) to the swimming skill, the ability to breathe underwater and innate friendliness with undersea life. You receive no penalties when in a liquid environment (normally underwater gives -4 to hit and base damage).
  * The Chef: You were trained at the HL Culinary Institute and Martial Arts School. Get +2 bonus level to melee, acrobatics and the cooking skill (these levels ride on top of the purchased levels).
  * Contingency Man: Player gets to have whatever random non-cronium-based items they want (up to 5 items a week worth 500 sands each, or 1 item worth 2500 sands). Beginning characters start off with up to 10000 sands worth of items. This sub-power (like Matter Creation) can defy the laws of physics and is explained by the immortals ability to subconsciously create needed items.
  * Educated: Character starts off with +8 extra starting skills. If they wish, they can have a formal education in their background, or be well trained (elite soldiers, master diplomat, etc). Also, beginning characters can raise one skill to level 8.
  * Evil Eye: Presence+d20 vs Will+11 to make target surrender and lay prone often times releasing their bowels for (1+number of successes) actions. In addition can be used as a direct physical missile assault, with base damage equal to Presence+6. Use 1/day per will point.
  * Grit: (Durability) this grants a character the Grit Power (raised with xp as a power 2 * next level in xp to raise). This power is vital for any Immortal who wishes to engage in dangerous activities such as melee combat, absorbing plasma bolts to the face, or leaping off of tall cliffs without suffering the inconvenience of forming a new body. This power gives a character Durability*Grit level in extra hit points ( i.e. a character with level 1 grit has double his durability in HP).
  * Level 5: Not Dead Yet: Characters strong in Grit become ridiculously tough, refusing to feel wounds that would drop other people. Characters with this specialty do not pass into unconsciousness when going below 0 hit points; they may stand and fight until they die. Also, they gain the unique ability to strangle opponents with their own dangling innards. NOTE: You have a skill penalty equivalent to your negative hit points.
  * Immunity to Poison and Disease: You are immune to poisons and diseases of all sorts.
  * The Mojo: These characters tend to be well spoken or attractive or both. Characters get +4 Presence vs people of the opposite sex of the character.
  * Ninja: A master of stealth, acrobatics and scaling sheer surfaces. This character is talented at Stealth, Acrobatics and Climbing, adding +2 bonus skill levels to these skills.
  * Innate Pilot: You are a master of piloting all forms of vehicular transports. Innate Pilots get a +4 bonus skill levels to all pilot-related skills. This bonus rides on top of the normal skill level. This means that an innate pilot is NEVER unskilled at piloting, even if he doesnt buy the appropriate skill.
  * Photographic memory: You dont EVER forget anything.
  * For Immortals with the Matter Creation power you can instantly create a number of different type of items (within your powers mass and area of effect limit) equal to your immortals thought + Matter Creation Level.
  * For Immortals with Life Creation you can instantly create a number of different types of creatures equal to your immortals thought + Life Creation Level.
  * You may change a given slot each time you gain another level of in that power.
  * Sustained: You dont need to eat, sleep, or drink.
  * Thick Skinned: You were abused by pigmy alligators as a child, and as a result, get +2 to DR. This is cumulative with DR gained from Shape Shift, natural durability, and armor.
  * Sharpened senses: You are constantly aware of your surroundings. Get +2 bonus levels added to the alertness skill (rides on top of the purchased skill level and gain masteries sooner). Your sharpened vision grants +2 bonus level to the missile skill (rides on top of base skill). A major aspect of stealth is being where your opponents aren’t observing, gain +2 bonus to stealth skill.
  * Telepath: You are sensitive to the minds of others. Once per day per will point, you get to make an opposed will check of d20+Will versus Targets Will +11 to successfully pick up information they may be concealing or their surface thoughts. For every success the character makes, additional knowledge may be gained. Gain +2 bonus skill levels to Bargaining checks (gain masteries sooner).
  * Tinkerer: You are a master of building, creating, and engineering. Tinkerers get a +2 bonus skill levels to the Engineering, Computer Systems, Bio-engineer/Geneticist. This bonus rides on top of the normal skill level. This means that a Tinkerer is NEVER unskilled at constructing items, even if he doesnt have the appropriate skill.
  * Warlord: You are a master of combat and strategy. Warlords get +2 bonus skill levels to the Melee, Missile and Tactics skill. This bonus rides on top of the normal skill level. This means that a warlord is NEVER unskilled at combat, even if he doesnt buy the appropriate skill.

##   Skills Details

In addition to Attributes, characters have skills to round out their
abilities. Starting characters get 2*THT in skill points to assist in
character generation. Each skill point can be used to buy 1 level in a skill.
Starting characters can buy a skill up to a maximum of skill level 6.

Advancing a skill after the game starts is more expensive than buying it up
with the starting skill points. A standard gaming session should yield between
15-20 XP depending on what the gm feels your characters accomplished. Using XP
points to raise a skill works in the following way:

  * To learn a new skill it costs 1 xp (normal skills).
  * To advance (specialize) a skill, it costs the next level in XP.(i.e. to raise a skill to level 2, it costs 2 points. To raise it from 2 to 3, it costs 3 points).
  * Skill levels are NOT limited by IPL and may be raised to any level.

Many powes and sub-powers provide bonus levels to skills. These levels ride on
top of any purchased levels and are cumulative (use the lower base value to
determine the cost to raise the skill directly).

Each level must be paid for. (You can not raise a skill from a 2 to a 4
without first paying for 3). XP may be used to purchase skills at any time.

Skill Mastery: Once level 10 is reached in a skill, your character gains a
mastery ability. An additional mastery is gained every four levels after 10
(14, 18, etc.) if available. This is an ability that you pick (one out of the
list available for any given skill) that helps show that you are truly a
legendary master at that skill. (For example, melee masters can learn thrown
melee weapons, quickdraw, etc). Mastery abilities are listed under each skill
in italics.

Skill List

  * Literacy: [FREE SKILL] (Thought). Every character gets this at Level 1 at no cost. This skill gives the ability to speak, read, and write the characters native language.
  * Linguist: By making a Very Difficult Skill Check (difficulty 26) you can speaking/understanding fragments of any language you encounter. This does include reading.
  * Pilot Land: [FREE SKILL] (Agility). Every character gets this at Level 1 at no cost. This skill gives the ability to pilot land vehicles (car, hovercar, hover tank, etc) in addition to most future surface sea vessels.
  * Professional Driver: The ability to move 2 to 3 times the rate of the rest of the traffic, take part in high speed chases, spin out and crash without killing yourself and your passengers, etc.
  * Stunt Driver: The ability to do insane moves like leap over an opening drawbridge, drive a car with almost no functional parts, etc. Add +4 to all skill checks made with land vehicles.
  * Defensive Manuvering: The pilots skill in evading attacks gives the vehicle a +4 to Evade. This can go above and beyond the maximum evade of a vehicle.
  * Acrobatica: (Agility) dodging, jumping, flipping etc.
  * Anime Leap: Standing Jump add 10+lvl feet to vertical jump distances. To horizontal distance add (10+lvl) X 3 feet. Running doubles these distance bonuses.
  * Arboreal Movement: You can move at double normal movement for short bursts, leaping through the trees (max speed of 2X sprinting speed or 6X base move).
  * AutoDodge: Once per round as a free action you may attempt to dodge an attack that would normally have hit you (including critical strikes, and area of effect attacks if you have the movement speed to escape the area), the difficulty of this is the initial attack roll total or in the case of area of effects 30, roll Acrobatica + AGI + d20 a tie in this case is a dodge.
  * RollWithImpact: Your insane agility allows your to you minimize the effect of any attack as long as you are conscious (even surprise attacks), gain an additional DR to all physical/energy attacks equal to your Acrobatica skill/3 rounded down.
  * Alertness: (Will) The skill aids in perception checks. There is no penalty for being unskilled, although each level will aid in detection or search attempts(Will + Alertness + d20)
  * Panoramic Vision: Your extraordinary spatial awareness allows you to have 360 vision.
  * Danger Sense: In case an ambush is about to be used against your character, or in the worst case if you are surprised, or a trap is about to be sprung the council representative gives you one action (not a round of actions) before the surprise occurs and must describe the danger. Note that characters with Danger Sense are never surprised (they always get their full evade/parry, see combat later for details).
  * Artistic Ability: (Presence) Can create any type of art. Can also judge the value of art or beautiful women.
  * Masterpiece: You are able to produce masterpieces of art, earning amazing wealth and fame and the envy and respect of your peers. Each month the player character earns 1billion * (Artistic Ability-9) in sands. So 1 billion credits per month at level 10, 2 billion sands per month at level 11, etc.
  * Astro-Navigation/Math: (Thought) This skill allows a character to navigate through space. Immortals may add their Master of the Warp power level to their astrogation skill. It can be very treachorous to travel without Master of the Warp power or a Nav computer through jump space. The difficulty for traveling more than 10 light years per jump requires a navigation check target number of 21 + 1 per 100 light years and failure indicates a random error in destination of 100 light years per point failed by. A critically failure results in re-entering normal space in a star (dam = 30 per round) unless aMaster of the Warp or Nav computer is available in which case just normal failure occurs(random destination error but no chance of ending up in a Star or other object).
  * Absolute Direction Sense: Your character has a feel for where he is in the universe and can chart his way to the nearest inhabited or life sustaining world (players choice) without any special instrumentation.
  * Linear Algebra: You can guarantee survival as a master of probabilities for a limited time. If the check succeeds (crack trip difficulty) your character cannot be knocked unconscious (lowered to 0 hit points) for his linear algebra level in rounds. This check may only be successfully made once per day (you may keep trying until you succeed). Why is it called Linear Algebra? We dont know. But if you are good at it, you are invincible (at least for a limited time). Or it seems that way, at least. In addition if your character hasnt yet made the check that day upon being knocked unconscious (or killed outright) you can make a roll to activate the ability as you are being injured to stay conscious (and alive) for at least skill level in rounds.
  * Bargaining: (Presence) Attempt to lower price. Each roll Haggling check. Whoever wins add, or subtracts 10% per victory point to/from start price. The range limit is half the listed price to double the listed price.
  * Hagglorious: You never have to pay more than, and always sell for at least the full standard price (as long as there is a buyer available). In addition once per game session you may talk one non-player character out of some incredible gear for free and they'll be thankful for it.
  * Bio-Engineer/Medical: (Thought) This skill allows the character to understand the building blocks of life and enables the character to do research in the area of genetic engineering. Skill level 6 or greater is outlawed by the council and the majority of free space (they fear the wrath of the council).  In addition to basic first aid (heals one damage point to target, only good immediately after they are wounded (within 10 minutes or so)), the Medical professional can do surgery, prescribe medications, get employment at a hospital, use advanced medical equipment, etc.
  * Genesis Device: You understand the technology of terraforming a planet rapidly and violently, in the manner of a world changing Genesis Device. All existing life on a single planet suffers 20 damage per round for 5 rounds, as the initial biological forces manifest by recycling existing matter. Terraforming bombs can be created in a base time of 1 year (note immortals with the Matter Creation power can decrease this rate substantially), at a construction difficulty of 30. In order to create these items there must be almost constant supervision by a genetics master.
  * Ancient Immortal Secret: You have rediscovered the very knowledge that the Council once developed. Through incredible breakthroughs you can now turn normal beings into Immortals. While this particular mastery isn't very useful to a COTA, normal humans would sacrifice much for such knowledge. It takes approximately 1 year for the process to be completed on an individual and 10 million sands for equipment. The immortal then has a randomly determined starting power and random attributes (using character generation rules if applicable).  
Medico: Specialist gains the ability to graft foreign body parts upon target,
in the appropriate area (i.e. a dark-vision eye from an cave crawler into a
human eye socket, a claw instead of a hand, a human head on a monkey body,
etc).

  * Climbing: (Agility averaged with Strength) negates unskilled penalty for climbing. Allows use of climbing gear.
  * SpiderClimb: You can climb any surface (including upside down on ceilings) without equipment and even while casually walking.
  * Computer Systems: (Thought) The ability to use computer systems (including globals), write useful programs, and hack into computer systems. Computer programs require 1 day per skill point, and the program writer must have the appropriate skill at one level higher. So in order to write a level 5 Melee skill program the computer systems writer must have 6 levels in the Melee skill. In order to learn this skill AIs or newly created life forms should have access to neural jacks and are required to have available skills ranks. Note that AIs have 2*THT in skill levels and a maximum of the writer's skill - 1, in any skill. The difficulty to write a program is 14+Skill Level.
  * Create/Manipulate AI: Can create an AI with THT, WIL and Max skill equal to characters Comp Science - 1. The time to create an AI is 1 week per the THT +WIL. See AI-Artificial Intelligence in the equipment section for details.
  * Armageddon Virus: Create self-replicating virus. Use characters Computer Systems Skill, THT, and WILL for attack upon an entire network of systems (see the computer combat section).
  * Cooking: (Thought) You know how to prepare masterly crafted meals of incredible taste and visual appeal.
  * Food Coma: You can completely satiate anyone who eats one of your meals. They no longer wish to do anything other than sit there and digest. You can calm down entire hordes of people this way. (Game Effects: Anyone eating a food coma meal has 1 actions per round for the next 2 hours).
  * Engineering: (Thought) This skill covers the various fields of engineering (power systems, mechanical engineering, chemical engineering, electrical engineering). Players can construct a variety of technological devices, ranging from chemicals, drugs, explosives, electrical systems, engines, armor, weapons, ship hulls, etc. The time required for construction is dependent on materials and workers available.
  * Master Crafter: The engineer can created masterly crafted items. Any items crafted which require  Engineering give a +2 bonus to hit or skill checks to the item for appropriate rolls.
  * Pinnacle of Design: Any items crafted which require Engineering automatically have DR of 4 higher than normal and an additional 50% hit points (round down) applied to base hit point total (any percentage modifiers due to material types etc. are all applied separately to the base amount and summed).
  * Warp Power: Any items crafted which require Engineering (i.e. vehicles, ships, armor or any device with agility) may have a base agility of 4 higher than normal.
  * Enhanced Shields: Any items crafted which require Engineering may gain an additional 4 points of shield DR.
  * Gambling: (Presence averaged with Thought) Can play at betting games. Add to skill roll for specialization.
  * Bluff: In the face of certain doom you can convince your opponents that you have a superior position. Roll Presence + Gambling + d20 vs targets Will + Gambling + 11. Success gives you a one extra free action (Bluff doesn't take an action). This ability can be used in most situations, but only once per round. If there is no opponent available to bluff then the mastery cannot be used, unless the Gambling Master makes a *Crack Trip* difficulty check. “As Ace plummeted off the mountain he made final attempt to curse the very planet and deny gravity allowing him another chance to grasp a nearbye tree root”
  * Glass Blowing: Make glass.
  * Artisan: Make pretty glass. (Buy this skill. You need it. Really. Pretty glass. Oooh.)
  * Glass Sword: You can create a type of glass that will not break and is nigh invulnerable. Only small amounts can be created at a time, but it is enough to create a glass sword which does STR + 4 damage and looks really cool.
  * Herb Lore: (Thought) Can be used simlarly to do first aid similar to the Medical skill. Also gives you a +2 bonus levels to your cooking skill (total not per Herb Lore level).
  * Medicine Man: Can create poisons that do 1 point of damage per round (no damage resistance applicable) for Herb Lore level rounds. Each round a Durability check can be made Difficulty 11+Herb Lore level to stop taking damage.
  * Lore: Player has comprehensive knowledge in an all areas of lore. He is familiar with: History/War, Galactic Lore, Technology, Alien Species.
  * Sage: You KNOW. About everything. You can make a lore skill check about any topic to have heard something about it (the council representative decides the difficulty).
  * Medical: (Thought) 
  * Melee: (Agility) covers unarmed combat or any melee weapon, gain melee parry AGI + Melee Skill Levels + 11 (the character can opt to use his or her evade in melee as it may be higher). Parry can only be used against melee attacks that have a base damage less than 5 higher than the defenders base melee damage. Note that this allows powerful creatures to parry melee attacks (even energy swords) with their hands or claws.
  * Lethal Targeting: Anything is lethal in your hands and other weapons are even more effective, add +3 base damage to any melee weapons damage (including unarmed).
  * Hurled Weapon: Can throw melee weapon 10 + STR yards, using the melee skill for the attack bonus.
  * QuickDraw: Add your melee skill to your initiative in all situations.
  * Weapon Barrier: Lets you attempt to parry an attack (after it penetrates your Evade or base Parry). To parry, make a Hit roll. If your roll is equal to or better than the roll that hit you, you successfully parry. This is a free action once per round; additional parries may be made at the cost of an action each. You can not use Weapon Barrier against attacks that have a base damage of 5 or more than that of the weapon used to parry.
  * Reflexive Deflection: Add +2 deflection against all attacks (both melee and missile).
  * CounterAttack: Allows you to attempt to strike back at an opponnent if their melee attack misses you. Can be used once per round per melee attacker. Roll to Hit with a 2 penalty. This is a free action.
  * Ambidexterity: Allows a character to fight using a weapon in each hand (melee and/or missile), gaining an extra attack (not an extra action) per round. This extra attack is at a 2 penalty to hit. This extra attack is executed simultaneously with one of the character's normal attacks. In fact this extra attack may be used even in situations where only a single action is allowed (ambush or surprise round, preemptive attack given by Danger Sense, etc.).
  * Missile: (Agility) Allows proficiency in all ranged weapons (with the exception of ship based weapons).
  * Lethal Targeting: Anything is lethal in your hands and other weapons are even more effective, add +3 base damage to any missile weapons damage.
  * Quick Shot: Add your missile skill to your initiative in all situations.
  * Gun Kata: Your combat skills in missile weapons have progressed to the level that you ideally place yourself in order to avoid incoming missile and melee attacks equally, Add +2 deflection against all attacks (both melee and missile).
  * Point Defense: Can attempt a counter against any missile attack (even after it would normally penetrate your evade, base parry, or other defense). This may be done once per round for free, additional point defense actions require one action each. You do not have to beat the opponents initiative (defending yourself is a free action). You can declare the point defense after the attack roll is made. You make a hit roll. If your hit roll is equal to or better than your opponents, you deflect the attack. This does take up a missile or ammunition though. The missile must be thrown or fired; you cannot hold a dagger and parry stuff out of the air (thats the Missile Parry mastery for melee). You can not defend against attacks that have a base damage of 5 or more than that of the weapon used for point defense.
  * Ambidexterity: Allows a character to fight using a weapon in each hand (melee and/or missile), gaining an extra attack per round. This extra attack is at a 2 penalty to hit. This extra attack is executed simultaneously with one of the character's normal attacks. In fact this extra attack may be used even in situations where only a single action is allowed (ambush or surprise round, preemptive attack given by Danger Sense, etc.)
  * Blind Shooting: If your vision is impaired or blocked you can still target enemies with no penalty (as long as they have alerted you to their presence in some way, either by attacking or if you made a successful crack trip alertness check).
  * Disarm: If your target is holding a weapon, you can make a roll to hit with a -4 penalty, if you succeed their weapon is disarmed or damaged (your choice, council representative determines how bady damaged weapon is).
  * Death Blossom: You can fire a missile attack at every opponent within a your normal range and line of sight providing you have enough ammunition. This requires a full round (not once per action).
  * Musical Instrument: (Presence averaged w/ Agility) Read, play, and make music on an instrument.
  * Calm/Engross: The ability to so involve an audience into listening to your music that they no longer pay attention to what is going on around them while you are playing. Can be done even if the target audience is not listening to you when you start playing. The in game effect is that each listener loses one action per round that you continue actively playing (1 action per round cost).
  * Master Musician: Can play any instrument they pick up.
  * Pilfer: (Agility) Slight of hand, looting, picking pockets, + 1 bonus per skill level to Alertness checks to spot pilfer.
  * Stage Magician: Can perform impossible acts of sleight of hand, such as removing other peoples clothing unnoticed at a range of 10 feet (standard skill comparison).
  * Pilot Starship: (Agility) The ability to pilot any starship or fighter out there, given a sufficient amount of time (a few minutes to familiarize yourself with the controls. This takes longer for alien built ships. This also covers piloting of air craft limited to an atmosphere.
  * Defensive Manuvering: The pilots skill in evading attacks gives the starship a +4 to Evade. This can go above and beyond the maximum evade of a vehicle.
  * Research: (Thought) Useful for inventing new technologies or learning ways to do things that you know can be done, but are not sure how. A roll is made to successfully design a new item. The difficulty needs to be determined by the game master. Most technologies have been maximized but certain upgrades are available, for instance vehicle agility can be increased for star ships (up to 2 times the base), and masterly crafted weapons can be made +2 to hit→ thats pretty much it). New items can be made with existing technology though (for combination items take the highest difficulty and add 2 for each other item involved, add all times. etc.) Research difficulty is the item construction difficulty +2. Research time is double the normal creation time of any involved equipment (NO speed up for the matter creation power). For each success or 2 points over the target research roll research time is reduced by 1 week (minimum 1week).
  * Sponsered: The character has become a master at finding money from various grants, and has gained an incredible amount of flexible funding as a result. The character has at their disposal, 1billion*(ResearchSkill - 9) in sands per month as a research budget.
  * Genius: The character halves all research times.
  * Rope Use, Lassoing, Hog Tying: (Agility)
  * Hard Rope: You can twine cloth or rope so hard with your hands that it acts as a solid metal. It can be used to prop doors and stab opponents (acts as a spear str+2 damage or str +4 for a large two handed spear).
  * Running: (Durability) This covers the training and skill involved with jogging for more than a few minutes. For each level of running you can double the amount of time you can jog or sprint.
  * Speed of the Fury: Double all land movement rates (walking,jogging, and sprinting).
  * Security Systems: (Will or Agility) The ability to find, neutralize, or bypass securtiy systems. (Note: this does not include security systems for computers (i.e. security software). Those are dependent on a successful Comp/Ops roll. Detecting security systems are WIL based (perception check). To disable the systems is a roll based on THT or AGI, depending on the kind of system.
  * EagleEye: Security systems are auto-detected no roll is necessary.
  * CatBurgler: You have the ability to bypass any security lock, passing through while leaving no trace.
  * Stealth: (Agility) Hide, Sneak.
  * Ambush: +1 to base damage per level of stealth (melee, missile, Power Based, or any type of attacks). This comes into play any time the target is surprised and has a base Evade of 11.
  * BackStab: +1 to hit per level of stealth (melee, missile, Power Based, or any type of attacks). This comes into play any time the target has another attacker that either attacked this round or is threatening to attack this round on the opposite side of the Backstabber.
  * Storytelling: (Presence) The ability to tell good stories, and to entertain an audience, possibly for money.
  * Enthrall: Gain the ability to so engross an audience in your story that you can start ot implant subtle suggestions in their minds. Apply a single storytelling roll of d20 + Storytelling Skill Levels + Influence versus Victims Storytelling Skill Levels + Victims Will is applied to all listeners.
  * Swimming: (Agility averaged with Strength). Character can swim at AGI/2 in yards/sec, for DUR*10 minutes.
  * Aquatikhan: The character has the ability to summon to him several local fish when underwater, although he can not speak to them or command them. The character can swim at his normal movement rates.
  * Trade Skills: Merchants, Dancers, Banker, Electricians, woodcutters, etc.
  * Master: You are good at your trade. You can make enhanced and masterly crafted items.
  * Tactics: Characters with this skill are able to cohesivley direct groups of attackers, increasing their ability and effect. If a character with Tactics is directing an attack or defense, all combatants on the side of the Tactician gain a +3 to all attack rolls and +3 to their initiative. If two tactitions are battling against each other a contest of skills rolls is made Thought +Tactics + d20 vs OpponentsThought + OpponentsTactics + d20.
  * Aura of Command: The strategic master now adds +6 to hit and to the initiative of all allied combatants and is always successful (2 opposing master tacticians give both of their troops +6 to hit and initiative). Also, they may engage in a land war in Asia and win.
  * Legendary General: The leadership of this tactics master is legendary! Enemies quake in fear of their involvement. Troops from opposing forces abandon their posts. Also any organized force that is known to have this tactics master as one of it's generals, gains additional volunteers who flock to their cause. The percentage of troops that abandon the enemy and rally to the tactic's master is X%.
  * Weapon Systems: (Agility) Characters with this skill are able to successfully use starship-based weapons.
  * Quick Shot: +1 to Initiative for each weapon systems level (cumulative with other initiative boosters, missile and melee mastery (quickshot and quickdraw respectively).
  * Point Defense: Can attempt a counter against any missile attack. This may be done once per round for free. You do not have to beat the opponents initiative (defending your ship is a free action). You can declare the point defense after the attack roll is made. You make a hit roll; if your hit roll is equal to or better than your opponents, you deflect the attack. This does take up ammunition though (for ships dont worry about this unless using cronium weapons) You can not defend against attacks that have a base damage of 5 or higher than that of the base damage of the weapon used for point defense (so a mag heavy rifle, damage 7 could stop a heavy laser rifle, damage 9, but not a plasma cannon damage 12 or greater).
  * Wood Working: (Agility) Make figures, toys, wooden weapons. Can make a living as a carpenter.
  * Carver: Can craft masterpiece wooden items like the slave elves for Santa, complete with decorative carvings. ( i.e. masterwork quarterstaffs, elaborate furniture, etc).

#   Game Rules

##   Basics of The Victus Gaming System

###   Experience Points

####   How Much XP Should Be Given

GMs should give out 15 to 20+ XP per game session, depending on how much was
accomplished. NPCs (Non-player characters, such as hirelings and companions to
the PCs) get 5 XP per game.

####   Spending XP

In general, to raise an attribute or skill to the next level, it costs the
value of the next level in XP. For example, raising a 3 to a 4 costs 4 xp.

Every level must be purchased; you can not raise a 2 to a 4 without buying
level 3 first. Attributes can be raised to 10 in this manner for normal
humans. Powers and special abilities may give bonus levels that can ride on
top of this limit (10 base + total bonuses). When raising an attribute or
skill with a bonus you pay only for raising the base value (not the bonus
value). Note that IPL is only gained from successful missions and is awarded
by the council representative to keep the game moving at a rate that all the
players are comfortable with (a new power could be gained as fast as 8
sessions or as slow as 30 or more sessions).

Raising Grit or an Immortal Power is more expensive - it costs twice the next
level in XP. So, to raise a power from 4 to 5, it will cost 10XP.

###   Attributes, Powers, and Skills

Attributes: Basic inherent character abilities. Powers: Reality bending
abilities gained from the Immortality Process. Skills: Learned abilities.

####   How to Make Power Checks

Power + d20 vs. ATT + SKILL + 11

####   How to Make Skill Checks

Having a skill at Level 1 means that you are a novice in that skill. (In the
case of trade skills, such as smithing, this means that you can hold down a
very basic job performing that action). Skill level 4-6 means that you are a
skilled professional. Skill levels 7-9 are experts and skill levels 10+ are
masters of their trade.

In game terms, this means that you get a +1 to a roll for every level you have
in a skill. (In other words, your bonus is equal to your skill leve). Example:
Say your character has the smithing skill at level 3. This means that you have
a +3 bonus to every smithing roll you make. All skills are associated with an
attribute to determine a roll. This attribute is not always fixed; different
situations call for different attributes. The GM will decide what is
appropriate in a given situation. Example: Stealth can be used to sneak around
and is paired with AGI.

Rolls are made in the following manner:

d20+ATT+SKL

where ATT is the appropriate attribute (STR, AGI, DUR, THT, WIL, PRS) and
skill is the level of skill being used. Resistance values are static and are
ATT+SKL+11. Note that in the case noticing a sneaking character, the observer
may roll a d20 + Alertness Skill Levels + WIL versus a static stealth number
of AGI + Stealth Skill Levels + 11.

Advancing a skill after the game starts is more expensive than buying it up
with the starting skill points. Using XP points to raise a skill works in the
following way:

  * To learn a new skill it costs 1 xp (normal skills).
  * To advance (specialize) a skill, it costs the next level in XP.(i.e. to raise a skill to level 2, it costs 2 points. To raise it from 2 to 3, it costs 3 points).
  * Each level must be paid for. (You can not raise a skill from a 2 to a 4 without first paying for 3).

Skill checks are made using the appropriate stat, as described above.
Unskilled attempts have a penalty of 2 to the roll, and may sometimes not be
available(NU is used to denote skills that may not be rolled for unskilled,
NU=not unskilled). When a check is required the target rolls d20. A roll of a
1 is an automatic failure unless the character is a master of the skill (level
10+). A roll of 20 is an automatic success except in the case of a crack trip
difficulty.

Skill /Action Check

Difficulty Number

Easy

8

Sub-Par

14

Average

18

Tough

22

Very Difficult

26

Damn-Near Impossible

30

Crack-Trip (Need skill 10+ to attempt)

34+

For example, Bob Rica wants to leap off a moving bus traveling at 30 mph and
grab onto a car roof during an ice storm, open the passenger door and sit down
before his hair gets too wet. This is damn near impossible. So Bob takes his
agility 5 and because he's skilled level 2 in acrobatics his total bonus is 5
+ 2 = 7. To succeed Bob has to roll a 20 (that maneuver sounds like its damn
near impossible, council members determine difficulties) or higher to make the
target number of 30 (20 always succeeds unless the action is Crack-Trip. Bob
decides this is just too tough, so instead he decides to just leap on top of
the car (that's still average target number of 18) so the roll necessary is now an
11 (5 +2 + d20 target number 18) or better. Suppose Bob was level 4 in
acrobatics, this has a strong effect on his odds of making the leap now

the total is 5 agility + 4 skill + d20 so he'd only need to roll a 9 to make
it. If Bob werent skilled in acrobatics at all he'd need to roll a 15 (5
agility - 2 unskilled penalty + d20 target # 18).

Target #'s requiring a roll of higher than 20 are possible. As an example,
suppose Bob Rica wanted to pull off his belt, swing it around the back of the
car, and water ski on the icy road behind the car after leaping from the bus.
The difficulty level would be Crack-Trip (34) so in order to even attempt it,
Bob would have to have skill level 10 in one of the appropriate skills. In
addition if Bob werent skilled in both rope use and acrobatics (close to
skiing) hed incur an additional 2 penalty.

Let's say Bob doesn't have either skill and with his 5 agility and 10 skill
he'd need a roll of 20 (5 + 10 + d20 - 2 unskilled, target # 34), which is a
21 or better on a d20 roll which is impossible, but remember a roll of 20
allows an additional d20 roll, which is added to the original (this extra die
roll can be earned only once). Very powerful COTAs can do this sort of thing
routinely; remember they have powers and abilities that boggle the mortal
mind.

##   Combat

Combat is fast and vicious in the Victus Game system. Rounds are 1 second
long, which means that most battles are over in 3 to 5 seconds; it doesnt take
that long to have a sword thrust through you.

An action is either a movement or attack (so if you want to move and attack it
requires 2 actions).

Characters can use all of their actions in a round. The number of actions that
a character can take is determined by the characters AGI, dividing it by 4,
and rounding down. A character takes all of his actions on his initiative,
which is determined by rolling a d20 and adding it to a characters THT.
Alternatively they may hold one action as an interrupt triggered by another
event, “I blaze away with my harpoon gun at the first target through the
door”. Or they may delay all their actions until after an event happens, “I
delay my initiative until the first guy comes into the room”.

###   Attacking

An attack succeeds if the attackers HIT value is equal to or greater than the
opposing characters TARGET value (which can be determined by their EVADE or
PARRY value, depending on what they choose to do). The HIT value is determined
by:

Agi + SKL + d20

SKL refers to the Skill level (usually melee or missile, in the case of
combat). If the character doesnt have an appropriate skill, then they have a
penalty of 2 to the roll (giving them Agi + d20 - 2). If a character isnt
caught unawares, and tries to dodge the enemys attack (by default), their
EVADE value is what determines the target difficulty number for the attack.
The EVADE value of the target is determined by the following:

Agi + SKL + 11

In this particular case, the SKL level used would be based on the Acrobatica
skill. If the character is trying to parry (which can only be done against a
melee attack), the skill is Melee. Finally shields (like a buckler), some
items, powers, and skill masteries add a Deflection bonus that is added to
both parry and evade (defends against both melee and missile).

For vehicle combat the attack SKL is usually Weapon Systems for larger
weapons, small (Heavy Rifles or lighter) turret mounted weapons are fired
using Missile skill. The defense SKL is the appropriate piloting skill. Note
that the attack totals (Agi + SKL = HIT) and the defense bonus (Agi + SKL) are
limited by the vehicle agility. The max evade is equal to 11 + vehicle agility
(certain masteries can go beyond this limit). So for a vehicle with an 8
vehicle agility, the best evade possible is an 11 + 8 = 19, and the best
attack bonus with any hull mounted weapons on this vehicle is +8. Turret
mounted weapon systems are only limited by the skill and agility of the
gunnery but take up double the space. Note that the upper limit on vehicle
agility is around 28. Take a (10 base + 4 mastery) x 2 = 28. Characters with
skills and abilities that surpass these levels find themselves hampered by
technology.

If the target is surprised, then the TARGET number is the default base of 11.
Remember a roll of a 1 is an automatic miss/failure. Only one surprise attack
is made (not all of the characters actions), then initiative and normal combat
rules/evades apply. If the HIT number is greater than or equal to the TARGET
number, a hit is scored. If the HIT number exceeds the TARGET number by two or
more, a SUCCESS is gained for every 2 points (rounded down) the TARGET number
is exceeded by. Damage from a successful attack is determined by the
following:

Base Damage + # Successes - DRtarget

The Base Damage for melee or thrown weapons is ^Strattacker + weapon bonus^.
The Base Damage for other weapons is listed in the weapons table in the
equipment section.

The maximum damage any attack may do is the base times two. For example a
powerful human with Str = 5 wielding a Two-Handed plasma sword (Str+8 damage)
has a base damage of 13, and a maximum damage of 26. Damage can be absorbed by
DR (which stands for Damage Resistance). Every character gets a base DR
determined by their DUR/3 (rounded down). This is their body's DR and is
applied to all physical attacks (note that mental attacks like influence use
the WIL stat to determine DR, much like DUR is used to calculate DR for
physical attacks). In addition to the body's DR, characters may have
additional DR from armor or from powers.

A critical hit is scored if the attacker rolls a 20. The attacker may roll
another d20 (once, not open ended) and add that to their to hit roll (thereby
increasing their number of successes and damage done, although they are still
limited to 2XbaseDamage maximum). This attack is considered an automatic hit
and always causes at least 1 point of damage per weapon past any DR the target
has. In the case of rapid fire weapons, which can be fired full auto for d6
attacks in lieu of the normal number of actions for the round, the minimum
damage from a critical hit from such a burst is still only 1 point, and NOT d6
points. However, for a battery of 4 of such weapons (such as what you might
find mounted on a spaceship), it'd be 4 points of damage minimum.

Underwater or foriegn environment gives attackers a -4 to hit roll, and -4 to
base damage.

###   DR Damage Resistance

Damage can be absorbed by DR (which stands for Damage Resistance). Characters
may have DR to two types of damage in COTA, Physical and Mental.

Almost all equipement give Armor or DR apply their DR to Physical attacks that
cause damage. Mental DR is usually WIL based.

Every character gets a base DR determined by their appropriate Attribute/3
(rounded down). This is their base DR and is applied to all attacks. Physical
attacks use Durability to calculate this base number, mental attacks use the
Will stat to determine DR. In addition to the base DR, characters may have
additional DR from other areas (skin, armor, field, etc.). Unless otherwise
noted, skin DR stacks, while armor and any other DR does not.

Drowning or suffocation damage is d6 per round bypassing all DR. Falling
damage is 1 point per 10ft fallen, maximized at 20 points for terminal
velocity.

###   Effects of Damage

When a character is damaged to 0 hit points or lower they are normally
unconscious. When a character is damaged past their negative Durability they
are normally dead (i.e. if a target had a 4 Durability is is damaged to -5 HP
or lower, they are dead). Certain powers may modify these levels.

When a Vehicle or Automaton (Robot) is damaged to 0 hit points or lower they
are made inoperable and lose functionality. When the Vehicle or Automaton is
damaged past it's maximum hitpoints it is utterly annhilated (i.e. if a
Android with 24 maximum hit points is damaged to -25HP or lower it is
annhilated, simple repair won't work it'll need to be rebuilt from scratch).

###   Grapple Rules

An attacker can attempt to grapple a single opponent effectively grabbing them
and holding them in place. With a single action first roll to hit the target,
if successful now roll an pposed strength check

d20 + Attackers Effective Strength vs. Targets Effective Strength + 11

In lieu of effective strength movement powers granted by Energy Control (if
the target of a grapple) or Shapeshift (either defensively or offensively) may
be used (where Power Level = Effective Strength).

Vehicles have an equivelant effective strength and may be grappled. If the
effective strength isn't listed feel free to give it an appropriate strength
based on it's carrying capacity. Most starships have an effective strength of
16+7*SizeClass. If the roll succeeds the object or being is grappled and has
their evade reduced to the minimum of 11, in addition they may only make
restricted movements giving them a 10 modifier to attacks/skill checks. The
grapple continues until the target successfully breaks free (they can attempt
to break free once per action without the 10 penalty), the grappler must use
all their actions to hold the grapple. After the grapple has been successfully
applied the grappler may squeeze the target once per round for double their
strength in damage. Shapeshifter/Energy Creators have an effective strength
determined by the better of Strength + power level or the effective strength
of the power (2*Power level).

###   Ship to Ship Combat Example

Ships are piloted and gunned by neural interfaces, using the better of the
pilots THT or AGI

Vehicle weapons are broken down into two categories

  * Personal Weapons (Heavy Rifles or smaller targeted using a gunners AGI + Missile skill)
  * Vehicle Weapons (Heavy Rifle Batteries or Larger, targeted using gunners THT + Weapon Systems)

are normally fired using the weapon systems skill, d20 + THT + Weapon Systems.

Lets say a gunner with THT 8 and Weapon Systems 6 is firing a Heavy Laser
Rifle Battery full auto at an enemy Cruiser. The gunners total bonus to hit is
+16 (14+2 for rapid fire, assuming his vehicle has at least a vehicle agility
of 14 to accommodate his skill at aiming). His target is a Cruiser with
vehicle agility 14 (so its max evade is 11+14=25) with a pilot who has THT 8
and Pilot Starship 6, optimizing the ships defense at 11+(8+6) = 25 evade.
Lets say the gunner rolls a 20 and then on the additional d20 roll gets
another 20 (no additional rolls are gained after the initial critical). His
total to hit score is 16+40 = 56. Since the gunner scored great than or equal
to 25 a hit has been scored. In fact the score (56-25=31)/2 successes or 15
successes. The maximum damage for a Heavy Laser Rifle is 2*Base 16 = 32. If 16
successes were achieved on the attack roll, then the maximum damage capacity
of the Heavy Laser Rifle would be reached (any additional successes wouldn't
add anything). The Cruiser has full shields so its DR is 20+6=26. Since there
are 4 Heavy Lasers in a single battery the gunner rolls a d6 for each Heavy
Laser or 4d6 to see how many of the rapid fire shots hit and gets a 12. The
damage the Cruiser takes is 31-26= 5 damage per shot so the total damage from
the battery is 60. Since a Cruiser only has 60HP it has been damaged badly
enough that it can no longer function (completely annhilated at negative it's
HP). Now if the target was a Dreadnought with identical Evade but greater DR
and shields (24 DR + 12 Shields) the Heavy Laser Rifle couldnt normally pierce
its defense (the maximum damage capacity of 2*16=32 is less than 36 total DR).
But when a critical hit is scored at least 1 point is done per weapon so only
four damage (the number of Heavy Rifles in a battery) would have been done. This
damage can still add up but doesn't put the dreadnought in immediate jeopardy.

###   Structure DR reference table

Some standard DR/HP for structures:

Structure

DR

HP

Normal Building (small)

10

24

Large Building (10 stories)

12

40

Giant Towers (100 stories+)

16

60

Military Base

20

60

Huge Military Base

28

80

Moon or Space Station with Shields

40

400 (regen 10 HP/round gravity)

Earth Sized Planet

60

1000 (regen 20 HP/round gravity/geothermal activity)

###   Computer Combat

Handle computer combat as follows. Base Initiative is the d6 + THT (the melee
mastery QuickDraw and the missile mastery Quick Shot dont apply to computer
combat). The characters thought is used for initiative, and acts as agility in
that it determines number of attacks and the to hit roll. The will of the
hacker acts as both strength and durability in cyberspace (which acts as the
damage of his attacks and provides damage resistance (WIL/3 rounded down) and
hit points). In hacking combat the number of hit points a hacker has is equal to
their comp ops skill level * WIL. The hackers skills and powers may add on to
his offensive rolls and raise his hacking evade.

The To HIT roll is:

THT + Comp Systems + d20

Evade in computer attacks is:

THT + Comp Systems + 11

Damage for each attack is:

Base Damage + # Successes - DRtarget

To develop a security system, give it a thought and a will and skill level.
For instance, a prestigious bank might have a security system with 10 thought
and will along with 10 Computer Systems skill. Treat the thought as agility
for number of attacks and attack rolls and will as strength and durability. If the
security system is defeated (reduced to zero hacking hit points) the hacker
has broken in and may make changes to the system (successful computer skill
checks with difficulty equal to computers thought + 11 to avoid system
users/the A.I. noticing the changes). If the hacker is defeated (his hacking
hit points have been reduced to zero) he has failed to penetrate the system
defenses and he has been identified as trying to break in the system, his
system entry point has also been identified. Good banks will have systems with
stats and skill of 10 or 12. Military systems tend to have stats and skills of
14+.

###   Combat Movement

During comat, a character can move at his normal movement speed at the cost of
one action (either walking, jogging, sprinting, using a power, or otherwise).
A target can move its normal jog move (agility) in yards/second. Sprinting
(1.5x normal movement) can only be done for 5xDUR in seconds; jogging can be
done for 5XDUR in minutes (although the running skill can extend this time).
Walking speed is half agility and can be maintained indefinitely.

Movement occurs in initiative order unless the initiative winner forces his
opponents to move first (usually a good idea unless your racing for a doorway
etc.) and occurs before attacks.

###   Interactions and Contests Difficulty Tables

Difficulty Target numbers for rolls

Skill / Action Check

Difficulty Number

Easy

8

Sub-Par

14

Average

18

Tough

22

Very Difficult

26

Damn-Near Impossible

30

Crack-Trip

34+

#   Equipment

Equipment is divided into the following categories: General Equipment,
Vehicles, Space Ships, and Weapons and Armor. Following the equipment lists is
the section on making equipment. The following terms are used to describe
equipment:

Cost: How much it costs to buy the item on the standard market. Many items may
not be available on the standard market, and must be made or purchased from
the black market. The cost for black market purchases is substantially higher,
and effectively up to the game master. Cost is measured in Sands (the standard
unit of currency across human space). 1 Sand has the buying power of about 1
US dollar. Sands got their name because the current currency system is backed
by Cronium, with 1 Sand equal to 1 small grain of Cronium. The material cost
for building any equipment is 1/5th the listed cost. The rest of the cost is
labor and tool availability. Botched construction rolls dont waste the
materials.

Weight: How much the item weighs, in pounds. The Council, which established
most of the rules, regulations, and standards of human space, came from the
old United States of America, which used the English system of measurements.
(i.e. 1 ton = 2000 pounds)

Tech Level: What the technology rating of a planet has to be in order to have
the item readily available. Note: Higher tech items may be available on the
black market, for an exorbitant amount of money. A lab facility or workshop
must also be at the Tech Level requirement in order to make the item.

DR: How tough the item is, and how much damage it can absorb (in the case of
armors). Each level of shields adds +1 to the construction difficulty. The
time increase is 1 week per vehicle size class per shield point to the
construction time (multiply shield level time size class). Fighters, tanks and
smaller vehicles have size class zero so there's no additional construction
time increase for adding shields to these smaller vehicles. Vehicles generally
have a HP rating as well. When a vehicle is reduced to zero hitpoints it is no
longer functional. When HP are reduced past the negative starting HP of a
vehicle it is completely annhilated.

Required Skills: What skills are needed in order to make the item. This
applies for both craftsmanship and Matter Creation methods of making items as
well as upgrading existing equipment (Note: adding shields to a dreadnought
only requires level 8 in Electrical Engineering and Power Systems, not the
level 10 skill required to create a dreadnought, although to increase its
vehicle agility, level 10 would be required in all necessary skills).

Difficulty: The difficulty check number for making the item. This is rolled
for using the skill with the lowest level out of all of those necessary to
make the item. See the section for Making Equipment. If multiple individuals
are working on a project together, as long as the minimum stat + skill level
is at least only 4 lower than the maximum stat + skill you can still use the
max skill + stat for the final roll. So someone with a 10 THT and minimum
required skills could use the aid of fellow engineers with an minimum combined
THT and minimum skill of at least 16 (6THT + 10Skill, 10THT + 6Skill or any
combination that adds to at least 16) but not less. In addition for every
doubling of the number of engineers a +1 is added to the final construction
roll (+1 for 2, +2 for 4, +3 for 8 etc.) Its not unheard of to have 1,024+
engineers in a large coordinated effort like Dreadnought construction in order
to complete construction in a timely fashion. Also note that all engineers
must have the minimum required skill level to help on object construction (if
the minimum required skill is 6 those with skill level 5 can't really
contribute much, but they can always run and pickup coffee and donuts for the
rest of the crew).

Teams:For teams of engineers working on a project together add 1 to the
construction roll per factor of 2 engineers. For instance 2 engineers add 1 to
the construction roll, 4 engineers add 2, 8 engineers add 3, etc using the
best engineer for the final skill roll (not always but it makes the most
sense). Note that any successes on the construction check here reduce the
final construction time.

Construction Labs: Construction facilities have a base cost of 10 times the
type of equipment they produce, with an upper end of about 100 billion sands
(1e11). So the facilities and tools for constructing a destroyer are not much
different then those used to create a Dreadnought (Orbital Star Ship
Construction Station). Larger construction facilities can create cheaper
items, so for example an Orbital Star Ship Construction Station could easily
mass produce personal full body armor suits or neoglasses. The time to
construct a lab is 4 weeks per 1e9 sands with a minimum time of 4 weeks (thats
right Orbital Star Ship Constructions Stations require 400 weeks or almost 8
years to finish). The designer of the lab must have Competency (at least level
1) in any skills that will be used within the construction facility to create
items, but there is no difficulty roll to build a lab. Several people can pool
together to form a design team to provide all the requisite skills, if
necessary.

Time: The time required to make the item. This is using normal craftsmanship
type skills - immortals with Matter Creation reduce the construction time
based on level (see the conversion table listed under Making Equipment with
Matter Creation). By spending additional time more complicated items can be
constructed. For every multiple of the base construction time up to 10 times
the base construction time, you may add 1 point per time period to the
construction roll. When the construction check is made, every point exceeding
the target difficulty lowers the final construction time by 10%, to a minimum
of 10% of the final construction time.

Security: If a vehicle can communicate remotely it is vulnerable to attack,
all COTA vehicles and equipment have isolated communication devices that can't
remotely control the vehicle unless specially activated (there are advanced
optical interfaces between external sensors and the rest of the ship that are
scanned by devices internally, AI's haven't been able to breach the barrier
but they may be able implant programs → compare AI's THT + Comp Sys to the
internal security effective THT + Comp Sys giving the defensive system a bonus
of 8: d20 + AI THT + AI Comp Sys vs. Sec THT + Sec Comp sys + 19

Vehicle Agility: Most vehicles that move have an agility attribute. This
determines not only the maneuverability, but also its ability to aim devices
attached to hit or held by it, and finally its top speed (non-jump space
speeds). The maximum hit bonus (roll to hit) that can be achieved by a vehicle
is 2*the vehicle agility (before modifiers such as autofire). The difficulty
roll to increase the vehicle agility is +1 per vehicle agility point up to
double the base vehicle agility. The time required is an additional 1-week per
agility point per size class to create/upgrade. The additional cost for any of
these upgrades is +50% of the base price for each difficulty point increased.
Fighters, tanks and smaller vehicles have size class zero so there's no
additional construction time increase for adding shields to these smaller
vehicles.

Sample construction: Let's say your Matter Creationist is making a Heavy Robot
Power Armor (7-10 yard tall piloted robot) with base difficulty 25. Your
Matter Creationist power level is 6 and has skill level 8 in Power Systems and
Electrical Engineering (required for shields) and a 6 skill in the other
required areas of Mechanical Engineering and Chemistry. Your character has a
thought of 12(18) so your construction roll is d20 + 18 THT + 6 lowest
required skill) = d20 + 24. If you give the robot armor shields 6, and make it
a variant capable of warp flight in fighter form (difficulty +4) the
difficulty rises to 35. You'd have to roll a 11 or higher to succsessfully
construct the robot power armor. Time to complete is a base of 4 weeks + 0
weeks for shields (size class 0) + 4 weeks for the variant multiform = 8
weeks.

Let's say you rolled a 16 + 24 = 40. Since you beat the difficulty by 5 you'd
lower the base construction time by 50% (from 8weeks to 4weeks). Now as a
matter creationist level 6 you'd take that final time of 4 weeks and convert
it to actual time of 12 minutes because of your power speed up. This will be
the final construction time if the necessary weight of the object can be
constructed in this time. As a final check you must ensure that you can create
the mass required in that time period. Assuming an 8 agility you can use 2
actions per second to create 1280lbs worth of material (effective strength 12
for power level 6) for each action. This amounts to 2560lbs of material per
second. The weight of an average robot power armor is 30tons or 60,000lbs. It
would only take ~24 seconds to create the total mass, so 12 minutes remains
the final construction time.

Let's say you rolled a 20 instead, then rolled again and rolled a 15, netting
a total skill check of 35 + 24 = 59. Since you beat the difficulty by 24 you'd
lower the base construction time by the maximum of 90% (from 8weeks to 6days).
Now as a matter creationist level 6 you'd take that final time of 6 days and
convert it to actual time of 6 minutes because of your power speed up. Since
it only takes you 24 seconds to make the materials, this is the final
construction time.

Ultimate Fighter Example: Now some time later this same Matter Creationist has
advanced his power level in Matter Creation to level 12, and has Mastered
Mechanical Engineering (Pinnacle of Structural Design), Electrical Engineering
(Enhanced Shields) and Power Systems (Warp Power). His friend the
Electrokinesis immortal supplied him with an AI pilot with 14 THT,WIL and 12
Piloting Starship, and 12 Weapon Systems so he'll want to build the Heavy
Robot variant Starfighter with enough agility to account for this. Now this
Matter Creationist also has access to enough cronium to build the entire heavy
robot from it (that's 30tons of Cronium = that's 600 billions sands worth).
First thing he has to create or obtain is some tools that are capable of
working the cronium (heavy plasma torches, no roll necessary). He may even pop
out (instantly create) some robots to hold the torches for him as he's grown
exceedingly weary of manual labor and control them via a neural jack.

The base construction difficulty is 25. Your Matter Creationist power level is
12 and has skill level 10(12) in Power Systems and Electrical Engineering
(required for shields) and a 10(12) skill in the other required areas of
Mechanical Engineering and Chemistry. Your character has a thought of 16(28)
so your construction roll is d20 + 28 THT + 12 lowest required skill) = d20 +
40. If you give the robot armor shields 10 (4 automatically from enhanced
shield mastery, 6 base from the vehicle so +6 difficulty), and make it a
variant capable of warp flight in fighter form (difficulty +4), maxing out the
vehicle agility from 13 (9 + 4 from Power systems warp power mastery) to 26
increases difficulty by 13, cronium increases difficulty by 6, the difficulty
rises to 54! You'd have to roll a 14 or higher to succsessfully construct the
robot power armor. Time to complete is a base of 4 weeks + 0 weeks for shields
(size class 0) + 0 weeks for agilty increase (size class 0) + 4 weeks for the
variant multiform = 8 week. Let's say you want to improve your chances of
successfully completing the craft (don't want to waste that cronium with a
failed attempt) so your matter creationist spends 10 times the base time being
as careful as he possible can. So now the base time is 80 weeks but remember
for cronium items multiply the base construction time by 8, for the cronium
working delay, for a total of 640 weeks! That's more than 12 years
construction time.

Now the final roll is 13 + 40 + 10 (time bonus) = 63. This exceeds the
difficulty of 54 by 9 lowering the final time to 10% of the 640 weeks. Whew,
now it's down to 64 weeks. Applying matter creation speed up that yields a
final construction time of ~5.5 minutes (1 year and 3 months converts to 4min
and 32seconds x 3). If the roll had only been a 4 (the minimum needed to
succeed) the time would have been 50 minutes (12 years and 4 months converts
to 48 min and 32sec*4). Pretty cool huh.

Now for the fun part, what are the final combat stats of this monstrosity
heavy robot/fighter variant? Note that the space and atmosphere combat speeds
are identical. Specially designed hull mounted jump space field modifications
allow starships in COTA to travel through atmospheres without interracting
with local air molecules to cause friction.

HP

16 base + 8Pinnacle of Structural Design + 40 Cronium = 64HP

DR

16 base + 4 Pinnacle of structural design + 6 Cronium + 6 shields + 4 Enhanced
shield mastery = 36

Vehicle Agility

26 just enough to allow the AI you were gifted with maximum functionality

To hit/Evade

AI uses it's THT for agility in vehicles, so its to hit bonus is 14+12=26, and
it's evade is 14+12+11=37

Ground Combat Speed

On foot in robot form its 26x5yards per sec max=130yards/sec or about 285
miles per hour

Fighter Atmosphere or Space Combat Speed

In the air in fighter ship form its 26x1000yards per sec max=26,000yards/sec
or about 57,200 miles per hour

##   General Equipment

Antigrav Backpack / Hoverboard: A large, camping sized, waterproof and durable
back pack. Removes all encumbrance for items stored within it, up to 1200
pounds. A charge on an Antigrav pack will last for about a week.

Cost

1200 sands

Required Skills

Power Systems, Electrical Engineering

Weight

0

Difficulty

20

Tech Level

4

Time

4 days

Booster Pack: A large rocket pack that can carry up to 640lbs at high velocity
(effective strength 10). The speed is 10yards per vehicle agility point per
second. Vehicle agility is 10 (can be raised up to 20 bumping difficulty by 1
and cost by +50% per point, yielding a max speed of 200 yards/sec which is
pretty damaging to an unprotected passenger). Use the Pilot starship skill.
Raise the construction difficulty by 1 point per vehicle agility point over
10, and +1 week of construction time per point. The cost increases by +50% per
difficulty point over the base. per point.

Cost

2000 sands

Required Skills

Power Systems, Electical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering

Weight

20 lbs.

Difficulty

22

Tech Level

4

Time

1 week

Portable Washer: A sterilizing beam, which can also shake out dust and dirt
with an ultrasound emission.

Cost

400

Required Skills

Power Systems

Weight

1 lb.

Difficulty

20

Tech Level

1

Time

1 day

Programs: Computer software, which mimics skills.

Cost

10Skill level mimicked

Required Skills

Computer Systems, skill mimicked

Weight

N/A

Difficulty

14+skill level mimicked

Tech Level

2

Time

1 day per skill point

Food Replicator: A device that is about the size of a microwave oven but
colored bright purple (cannot be recolored or painted over). Replicated
preprogrammed meals. Takes about 2 sands worth of power per replication.

Cost

1500

Required Skills

Power Systems, Chemistry

Weight

5 lbs.

Difficulty

16

Tech Level

4

Time

8 hours

AI-Artificial Intelligence: An AI with THT, WIL and Max skill equal to
characters Comp Systems 1 can be created. The time to create an AI is 1 week
per the THT + WIL. Starting skill points equal 2XTHT as per normal characters
although instead of level 6 the maximum starting skill level is Comp Systems
skillCreator -1. As an example a bank AI with 8 THT, 8 WIL requires 8+8 or 16
weeks (and the AI begins with 16 skill points). Electrokinesis immortals can
do this in 1/60th the time at power level 1, 1/120th the time at power level 2
etc. (similar to Matter creation table). AIs can also create/manipulate AIs in
1/60th the time. The difficulty is Thought+Will+11. The cost for an AI is
10(THT + WIL)/2. So an elite military grade AI with 12 THT and WIL costs 1e12
or 1 trillion sands. AIs with a 11 or higher THT or WIL are outlawed in the
private sector and require special permits. AIs with THT, WIL in the 4-6 range
are prevalent throughout free space and link space. The have a default
presence of one.

Cost

10(THT+WIL)/2

Required Skills

Computer Systems

Weight

N/A

Difficulty

THT+WIL+11

Tech Level

6 (10 CS for AI)

Time

4 weeks

Android: Completely loyal. Self-repairing, can store a lot of facts and
useless trivia, and can learn up to 2*THT levels of skills. STR:10 AGI:10
INT:AI Dependent WIL: AI Dependent PRS:4 DUR:12. More powerful android frames
have been constructed (for each point of STR, AGI and/or DUR up to 6 above the
listed values add 1 to the difficulty and +50% to the price).

Cost

500,000 sands (AI purchased separately), and the ridicule of all your
neighbors.

Required Skills

Power Systems, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Chemistry

Weight

500 lbs.

Difficulty

26

Tech Level

6 (10 CS for AI)

Time

4 weeks

Robot: Basic humanoid or otherwise. These are simple bots with simple
programming. They can perform duties such as cleaning, simple combat, and
monitoring. They have the following stats: STR:4 AGI:4 INT:0 WIL:0 PRS:0 DUR:4

Cost

1000

Required Skills

Power Systems, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Chemistry,
Computer Systems

Weight

100 lbs.

Difficulty

20

Tech Level

2

Time

1 week

Neoglasses: Multispectrum goggles. Looks like a cool pair of sunglasses, and
enables the wearer to see in visible, UV, Infrared, X-ray, and Magnetic
spectrums. Can also function as a microscope (400x) or telescope (400x), note
that normal visual range can be up to a mile or more. Nearly indestructible.
Battery life is 1 month.

Cost

1000 sands

Required Skills

Electrical Engineering

Weight

1 lb.

Difficulty

20

Tech Level

4

Time

5 days

Power Boots: Increases base (walking) movement rate by 4. Thrusters: propels
wearer at up to 50yards/sec for up to 3 hours. Optional magnetics available
for Zero-G environments. Effective strength 10.

Cost

100

Required Skills

Power Systems

Weight

2 lbs.

Difficulty

21

Tech Level

6

Time

4 days

Cloak Suit: Envelops the wearer in an invisibility field, completely
undetectable (although occasionally a slight rippling might be seen). Grants
+4 deflection bonus in combat. Generally illegal. Battery life: 8 hours.

Cost

1,000,000

Required Skills

Power Systems, Electrical Engineering, Chemistry

Weight

3 lbs.

Difficulty

26

Tech Level

8

Time

4 weeks

Shielded Briefcase: Prevents scans from determining the contents of the
briefcase. Also reflects back an image of clothing or papers, etc.

Cost

6000

Required Skills

Electrical Engineering, Chemistry

Weight

5 lbs.

Difficulty

22

Tech Level

4

Time

4 days

##   Weapons and Armor

Plasti-Steele Ceramic plate armor: This kind of body armor is usually work by
law enforcement types and military ground troops. It is fairly flexible,
strong, and highly impact resistant. This armor is cumulative with skin-based
DRs. For every point of damage over the DR (of the armor and any shields the
wearer may have, or Energy Control absorption expended) the plate takes 1
point of damage in addition to the wearer possibly getting injured. The number of
these durability representing Hit points is 24 before the suit is made
useless.

Required Skills

Chemistry, Mechanical Engineering

Cost

500

DR

+6

Weight

15 lbs

Time

2 days

Difficulty

21

Tech Level

4

Stealth Suit: A resilient and comfortable light armor. This armor is
cumulative with skin-based DRs. For every point of damage over the DR (of the
armor and any shields the wearer may have, or Energy Control absorption
expended) the suit takes 1 point of damage in addition to the wearer possibly
getting injured. The number of these durability representing Hit points is 40
before the suit is made useless.

Required Skills

Chemistry, Mechanical Engineering

Cost

500,000

DR

+6

Weight

8 lbs.

Time

4 days

Difficulty

24

Tech Level

6

Personal Shields: This armor takes the form of a waist belt with straps that
reach over the shoulders, and a small pad at the small of your back attached
to the belt. It generates an invisible force field around your body, and can
be worn under your normal clothing, making it practically undetectable without
special equipment. Very popular amongst the rich and the corporate elite, as
well as space traders involved in shady businesses. Shielding is effective
against all physical and energy attacks.

Required Skills

Power systems, Electrical Engineering

Cost

1,000,000 per DR

DR

up to +4(+8 with EE mastery)

Weight

2 lbs.

Time

4 weeks

Difficulty

24

Tech Level

8

Full Body Armor: A Powered Armor suit. Used by extraction teams and for
special missions. Some of the more expensive models can have shields built in,
personal shields may be extended beyond this close fitting armor if stronger
than any built in shields. They have an assisted STR of 10 and Vehicle Agility
of 10 (This can be increased for the more expensive suits to a normal max of
20 or a max of 28 with power systems mastery). Max running speed is 1 yard/sec
per vehicle agility point. To build enhanced suits, it costs an additional
week and 1 extra points of difficulty for each vehicle agility point. Variants
have been known to exist with multifunctions, such as hover bikes that jet
assisted hops (distance 5yards x Vehicle Agility, height half this) in robot
form (increase difficulty by 2 and add 2 weeks to the construction time). All
of these armor suits have 12DR and 12 hit points. Up to 4 points of shields
may be added but they lower the armor agility by 1 point per (although they
dont affect the maximum). The cost increases by +50% per difficulty point over
the base.

Required Skills

Power systems, Electrical Engineering, Chemistry

Cost

1 million

DR

12(16 with 4 shields)

HP

12

Weight

200lbs

Vehicle Agility

10

Time

2 weeks

Difficulty

24

Tech Level

6 (8 with shields)

Heavy Robot Armor: A large powered armor robot standing about 7-10yards. Used
by extraction teams and for special missions. Some of the more expensive
models can have shields built in. They have an effective STR of 20 and an
vehicle Agility of 9 (STR can be increased up to 26, add +1 difficulty per
point and +50% of the base cost per point, Agility can be increased for the
more expensive suits to a normal max of 18 (2×9) or 26(2×13) with the Power
Systems Skill Mastery). Max running speed is 5 yards/sec per vehicle agility
point. To build enhanced suits, it costs an additional week and 1 extra points
of difficulty for each vehicle agility point. Variants have been known to
exist with multi-functions such as star fighters or hover tanks (increase
difficulty by 2 and add 4 weeks to the construction time). All of these armor
suits have a base of 16 hit points. Up to 6 points of shields may be added.
The cost increases is +50% per difficulty point over the base.

Required Skills

Chemistry, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering*, Power Systems*

Cost

1 billion

DR

16 (22 max with shields)

HP

16

Weight

30 tons

Vehicle Agility

Time

4 weeks

Difficulty

25

Tech Level

6 (8 for shields)

Cronium ItemsBesides being the key ingredient to ultra powered energy systems,
cronium is an incredibly durably substance (its the weight of adamantium but
much stronger). While outrageously expensive, items can be made out of cronium
in lieu of the standard materials (cronium plates for plasti-steel armor,
cronium threaded stealth suit, or even cronium Heavy Robot Armor). In this way
almost any item can be made using cronium. The additional cost is 1e9 credits
per 100lbs (so cronium plate armor costs .15 * 1e9 = +1.5e8). The additional
labor cost for working cronium is 10 times this (for the plate armor example
its +1.5e9 for the labor). Cronium items have +6 DR, as well as an additional
40 hit points or durability points. The base creation time is multiplied by 8
and the construction difficulty is 6 greater than normal.

Cronium Weaponry

Damage

Difficulty

Time

Cost per shot

Pistol

30

16 days

10 million

Rifle

30

16 days

10 million

Heavy Rifle

30

16 days

10 million

Cannon

34

1 month

100 million

Assault Cannon

38

5 months

1 billion

Demolitions: Grenades with timers and directed blast. Voice or key pad
activated. Optionally explodes if tampered with. Generally restricted or black
market purchase. Where legal, price is twice that of an equivelant grenade.

Assault Pod: Air pod which holds up to 6 people. Speed is 1000yards*Vehicle
agility. Once attached to a ship, it can not be detached, except from inside
the pod (unless it is blown off). Effective Str:20 and space equivelant for 40
human sized crew (determines carrying capacity). To attach to a ship, roll to
hit ship using the fighter pilot skill. Once attached, it burns a access hole
into the ship, dissolving the armor at a rate of 1d6 dr a round. Optional:
Cloaking for 5 times the cost.

Flight Agility

8

DR

14

HP

16

Cost

1 million

Laser, Plasma, Cronium Melee Variants: These are battery powered charged
weapon hilts that become full weapons when activated. The Base damage for one
of these weapons is either a Small Weapon (Str+1), a One-Handed Weapon (Str+2)
or a Two-Handed Weapon(Str+4), i.e. a knife, sword, and two-handed sword
respectively. The battery life is listed at 1 hour of continuous use. The
minimum charge for activation is a ten minute period so a single battery can
be used a maximum of 6 times before it needs to be recharged/refueled( for
cronium weapons). Normally these items can be plugged into any wall socket or
outlet to recharge, but Mag weaponry requires ammo. Amunition cost is 1 sand
per 20 slugs.

Stun Clips: Available for both Energy Pistols and Energy Rifles. Does the same
damage as a regular blast from the same weapon, but damage is stun only.
Cannot drop target below 0 HP. Price: 13 sands per clip.

Required skills to construct weapons: Power Systems, Electrical Engineering,
Chemistry Space ranges are 20 times normal (beam coherency, projectile
accuracy and target motion issues limit effective ranges)

  * Rifles: are +2 damage & cost for weapon is x2 & range x5 (Personal)
  * Heavy rifles: are +4 damage & cost x4 & range x20, (Personal)
  * Cannons: (artillery or ship based) are +10 damage) cost x100 & range x40 (Vehicle Based)
  * Assault Cannons: are (base+10 damage)x2 cost x1000 & range x100, these weapons also have an area of effect for the huge beam path approximately a mile wide and damage all objects within range within the beam. (Vehicle Based)

Construction time for Rifles and Heavy rifles is equal to pistol construction
time. Cannons require 2X the time, and are +4 difficulty. Assault Cannons
require 10X the time, and are +8 difficulty.

Weapon

Damage

Ammunition

Cost

Tech Level Required

Difficulty to Construct

Mass

Effective Range

Construction Time

Mag Pistol (Base Weapon)

10

20 slugs

100

2

17

3lbs

100 yards

2 days

Laser Pistol

12

25 beams

1000

4

20

3lbs

500 yards

4 days

Plasma Pistol

14

20 blasts

5000

6

24

3lbs

200 yards

4 days

Cronium Pistol

20

20 blasts

1e8

10

32

3lbs

500 yards

4 days

One-Handed Melee Weapon

Str+2

-

100

2

17

4lbs

1 yard

1 days

Two-Handed Melee Weapon

Str+4

-

200

2

19

8lbs

1 yard

1 days

Small Weapon (knife)

Str+1

-

20

1

16

1lbs

1 yard (10+Str yards thrown)

4 hours

Punch/Kick

Str (stun damage)

-

-

-

-

-

1 yard

-

Laser Weapon (melee)

Base+2

Battery:1hr, minimum 10min

500

4

20

same as weapon

1 yard

2 days

Plasma Weapon (melee)

Base+4

Battery:1hr, minimum 10min

2000

6

24

same as weapon

1 yard

4 days

Cronium Weapon (melee)

Base+10

Battery:1hr, minimum 10min

1e8 per battery

10

32

same as weapon

1 yard

2 weeks

Concussive Grenade

10

1 per

50

2

20

2lbs

10+Str yards thrown (5 yard radius)

1 day

Photon Grenade

12

1 per

250

4

22

2lbs

10+Str yards thrown (5 yard radius)

2 days

Plasma Grenade

14

1 per

500

6

24

2lbs

10+Str yards thrown (5 yard radius)

2 days

Nuclear Grenade

20

1 per

1e6

4

26

2lbs

10+Str yards thrown (5 yard radius)

2 weeks

Tactical Nuclear Explosive

30

1 per

10e6

4

28

50lbs

Dependend on launcher (200 yard radius)

4 weeks

Full Nuclear Blast

40

1 per

100e6

4

28

500lbs

Dependend on launcher (2000 yard radius)

16 weeks

Anti-Matter Bomb

60

1 per

100e9

10

32

1000lbs

Dependend on launcher (1000 mile radius)

52 weeks

####   Automatic fire rules

All rifles and pistols may be fired in auto mode, most cannons may not be
fired in this mode. Unloading a burst at a target not only gives the shooter a
better chance of hitting a target but can increase the damage caused.
Unfortunately in a round where burst fire is used no other actions may be
taken as the weapon takes the full attention of the shooter. There are two
modes of fire, targeted burst and spray. A targeted burst gives a +2 to hit
modifier, takes 6 shots of ammo, and hits the target 1d6 times. A spray gives
a -2 to hit modifier, a single attack roll is applied separately to each
target chosen. It also takes 6 shots and may hit 1d6 targets within a 180 arc
in front of the shooter.

##   Planetary Vehicles

Vehicles have a maximum evasion capability based on their design. The max
evade is equal to 11 + Vehicle Agility. So for a vehicle with a 8-vehicle
agility, the best evade possible is an 11 + 8 = 19. So a driver with a 4
agility and 2 pilot land skill would have a 11 + 6 or 17 evade and wouldnt
reach the vehicle limit, but a driver with a 8 agility and 9 pilot land would
only have a 19 evade (the limit) even though his potential is 11 + 8 + 9 = 28.
Unless otherwise noted the maximum vehicle agility is 2 times their listed
base or starting vehicle agility (most vehicles in COTA have a base vehicle
agility of 8 with a max vehicle agility of 16).

HoverTank: vehicle agility: 9, Effective strength of 20. Single Cannon
depending on tank type and a heavy rifle usually of the same type, which is
attached to the top for anti-personnel. Both weapons are aimed internally by
one pilot and 2 gunners, but a single pilot may also man both guns. Speed is
10 yards/sec per vehicle agility point. Add 1-week construction time for each
shield point.

Required Skills

Power Systems (PS), Electrical Engineering (EE), Chemistry (C), Mechanical
Engineering (ME), and Computer Systems (CS)

Cost

50e6

DR

16 (20 with shields)

HP

16

Weight

20tons

Vehicle Agility

9

Time

4 weeks

Difficulty

19

Tech Level

4 (8 in EE and PS with shields)

Patrol Hover Car: 8 (12 with shields) DR, 12 hit points, Effective Strength:
14,vehicle agility:10, Speed is 10 yards/sec per vehicle agility point. Dam:
10+/14+ (Ramming, Maglev Heavy Guns X 2). Lightly armored hover car commonly
used by security forces for riot suppression and by police forces.

Required Skills

Power Systems (PS), Mechanical Engineering, Computers (+ Electrical
Engineering (EE) with shields)

Cost

20,000

DR

8 (12 with shields)

HP

12

Weight

2,000lbs

Vehicle Agility

10

Time

1 week

Difficulty

18

Tech Level

2 (8 EE and PS with shields)

##   Space Ships

The adamantium based hardened space vehicles are designed to take the rigors
of jump space and the occasional Plasma Cannon Blast. They are structural
wonders and juggernauts. Inertial dampers and sub-space communicators (they
travel at light speed through jump space, allowing almost instantaneous
communication) and gravitational simulators are standard. Specially designed
hull mounted jump space field modifications allow starships in COTA to travel
through atmospheres without interracting with local air molecules to cause
friction.

Each level of shields adds +1 to the construction difficulty. The time
increase is 1 week per size class per shield point to the construction time
(multiply shield level time size class). The vehicle agility of a ship
describes how maneuverable it is. The difficulty roll to increase the vehicle
agility of a ship is +1 per vehicle agility point up to double the base
vehicle agility. The time required is an additional 1-week per agility point
per size class to create/upgrade. The additional cost for any of these
upgrades is +50% of the base price for each difficulty point increased. So to
give a dreadnought +12 Shields (Max) and Maximum Vehicle Agility of 16 the
cost is +1000% or 11 times the base cost (+12 shields adds 12 to the
difficulty then to raise the agility from 8 to 16 the difficulty is increased
by 8 so the total difficulty is increase is 20 and the corresponding cost for
such upgrades is 20 * 50% = 1000%) and the additional time for this is 120
weeks ( size class 6 x (12 shield points + 8 vehicle agility)=120 ) for the
shields.

The required tech level for adding shield technology is 8 in Power Systems
(PS), & Electrical Engineering (EE). As with all vehicles, some pilots may be
limited by the vehicle agility while others cant come close to using the full
maneuverability potential of a ship. Any ship may add an electro-immortal
navigation computer at a cost of 50 billion sands. This allows safe
astrogation for jumps of more than 10 light years. To travel 1000 light years
per day without an electro immortal navigation computer requires a damn-near
impossible astrogation check, otherwise location should be randomly generated.

Most standard drives can only uphold the energy necessary to remain in jump
space for a few minutes ( fission, fusion, and anti-matter), so short 10 light
year jumps can be made and it requires a 24 hour period to recharge and rest
the ships engines. Cronium drive systems can maintain jump space for much
longer and may re-enter jump space many times in the same day. Supplying
Cronium fuel for any ship is 1e9 credits per day. Combat speeds are determined
by agility (agility * 1000yards/sec for speeds). Note that the space and
atmosphere combat speeds are identical. The hull phase modulator that allows
frictionless atmospheric travel was discovered in the year 11,232 by Dr. Hans
Ludencreinz, an immortal working for the council, while he was working on a
new method for cooking and freeze drying entire crops of chickens upon
reaching maturity. The required skills to build space faring vessels are Power
Systems, Electrical & Mech Engineering, Chemistry, Computers. Starship docking
bays (for ships large enough to have them) allow room for additional vehicles
that must be obtained independently (purchases separately). The skeleton crew
to keep a ship at full functionality is 10% of the lower end of the listed
crew size (minimum 1). The maximum amount of personnel on a ship is equal to
double the listed crew (for Short periods of time a larger number of people
can reside in the docking bay, and other empty ship compartments, up to 4
times the listed crew). Active AI's may take the role of multiple crew
personel, up to 10 crew member per AI THT point (the ultra fast quantum
computers can complete most tasks before you finished considering them)
although they require bots (simple robots) equal to 10% of the minimum crew
size.

All of the listed warships are assumed to have cronium drive systems. This
doesnt add any extra expense or time. The cronium drives are capable of normal
10 light year jumps without the expenditure of fuel. But for full speed travel
1000 light years/day cronium is consumed at the rate of 1e9 sands per day.

Ships hit points refer to hull damage and vital systems. Once a ship reaches 0
hit points, then internal damage starts to occur and the ship is a sitting
duck.

DREADNOUGHT CONSTRUCTION EXAMPLE: The base difficulty for a Dreadnought is 26.
The minimum skill required in all necessary skills (Power Systems, Electrical
& Mech Engineering, Chemistry, Computers) is 10. Lets say a Matter Creationist
with the minimum base required skill levels 10 and Matter Creation level 10
(so his skill is 8(10) in all areas, and a thought of 16(26)) wants to create
a Dreadnought for himself because he's stranded on a planet and wishes to
travel in style.  Most ships (there may be some advanced alien technologies,
and skill masteries that go beyond the listed levels but that's up to the
council representative) have a starting vehicle agility of 8 so the largest
this can go is a max vehicle agility of 16.

Our Matter Creationist wants to maximize the shields (12 points of shield DR
without the Electrical Engineering mastery). The difficulty increase for 12
shields is +12 raising the total difficulty from 26 to 38. For a dreadnought
with 12 shields: the base vehicle agility is 8. Our builder wants to raise the
vehicle agility to 16 (the maximum for this vessel without skill masteries in
Power Systems), the corresponding difficulty increase is 8. The total
difficulty now rises from 38 to 46. The base time required to construct the
above dreadnought is 256 weeks. The time it takes to add the shields, is the
shield level: 12, multiplied by the size class of the vehicle: 6 in weeks. So
it takes 72 extra weeks to add full shields to the dreadnought. Now the time
total is 256+72=328 weeks. The additional time to cover the vehicle agility
increase is the raise in vehicle agility (equal to the difficulty increase)
multiplied by the size class in weeks. So for our example at size class 6, it
takes an additional 8*size class or 48 additional weeks to maximize the
agility after adding full shields. So the total time is 328+48 or 376 weeks.
The final difficulty is 46. Our Matter Creationists construction roll is d20 +
26THT + 10(min req. skill in this case computer systems) = d20 + 36. Our
Matter creationist has to roll a 10 to succeed.

The time required for him to construct this supreme space behemoth is
calculated as follows. Assume the Matter Creationist doesn't want to spend any
extra time carefully constructing the Dreadnought, and assume he rolls a 13,
yielding a 49. This exceeds the required construction difficulty by 3 (49-46)
lowering the base time by 30%. If he had failed the roll, there would be a
significant construction/design flaw and construction would have to begin from
scratch (it may function in a limited manner but it could break down at any
moment). The base time of 376weeks is reduced by 30% to 263 weeks. Now convert
263 weeks into it's largest time unit (years) and it's 5years and 3 weeks. To
determine the actual time it takes the builder, look up the largest time
increment and 5 years takes 5*16minutes or 80minutes. The additional weeks
will take 24seconds so it's negligible in this example. As a final check the
weight is checked to ensure that the Matter Creationist can construct the
required material in 80minutes. Assume an agility of 12 for 3 actions per
second, the builder can create 3*20,480lbs or ~30 tons per second. An average
dreadnought weighs in at 10million tons so it'd take about 90hours. So instead
of 80minutes constructing this monolithic space fortress will take 90 hours.

The cost of such a vehicle is 20*50% or 1000% over the base, so its 150e9 * 11
= 1.65e12 or 1.65 trillion sands.

FIGHTER CONSTRUCTION EXAMPLE: The base difficulty for building a fighter is
21. The minimum skill required to construct a fighter is 6 but if you want
shields the minimum skill in EE and CS is level 8. To add maximum shields to
the fighter the difficulty is raised by 4, from 21 to 25, and no additional
time is required ( 0sizeclass = 0 extra weeks) as a fighter is a relatively
small vehicle. The vehicle agility is 10 and that's sufficient so the
difficulty remains 25. There's no additional time for that as well: 0 weeks (0
vehicle agility * 0size class =0weeks). The fighter is small and it doesnt
take a lot of extra time adding extra mobility thrusters and juicing up the
engines, just more skill in balancing everything properly.

Lets say Bob the Spaceship builder wants to construct a fighter. He is a
normal human and has no special powers but he has a 8 thought and level 8 in
all the required skills. His construction roll is d20+8+8 = d20+16. In order
to build such a fine fighter in 4 weeks Bob would have to roll a 9 (9 + 16 =
25). Lets say Bob spends an additional 3 extra multiples of the total time
(4weeks) to make the total construction time 16 weeks. Now he needs to roll
only a 6 (6 roll + 16 skills + 3 time bonus) = 25. This is one ship builder
working alone with the right tools and materials. The material cost to Bob is
1/5th the total cost of the fighter. The fighters base price would be: 1e9
base + 4*50%*base = 1e9 + 2e9 = 3 billion credits.

So the material cost would be 600 million credits to Bob. Lets say Bob has a
team of 64 engineers (as long as the average stat + skill level is within 4 of
Bob's total of +16, but also note that they must have a minimum of skill level
6 to contribute (Tech Level of the fighter). If there were better engineers
than Bob in the group you can use their skill/stats as long as the rest of the
group is within 4 stat+skill points of them) working with him on the same
fighter. For every factor of 2 engineers (6 factors, 2^6 = 64) so now the
total construction roll is d20 + 16skills + 6 team bonus or d20 + 22. Now the
team only needs to roll an 3 to succeed. They roll a 16, that exceeds the
required construction difficulty by 13 but the minimum time requires is 10% of
the base time (so exceeding the difficulty by 9 or more results in the same
construction time). So the final construction time goes from 4weeks to
2.8days. In practice there are usually more engineers then available
construction facilities so team construction is more common place for normal
scientists. Note that this team could design an incredible fighter with
4shields and a maximum vehicle agilty of 20 at a difficulty of 35, since the
skill check for the 64 engineers is d20 + 22 they'd need a roll of 13. They
might want to take some extra time, say 11 months instead of 1 so (thats the
maximum time bonus they can get +10) they'd be d20+32 and only need a roll of
3 (even after all this time with this large group working the revolutionary
tech fighter may be flawed 15% of the time).

Space Fighter: Size Class:0, Cronium drive systems

Cost

1 billion

DR

14 (18 with shields)

HP

16

Weight

10 tons

Vehicle Agility

10

Time

4 weeks

Difficulty

21

Tech Level

6 (8 in EE & PS with shields)

Size

7-10yards

Weapons

2 Heavy rifles mounted

Crew

1-3

Slots

5/5

Scout/Corvette/Cutter: Size Class:1, Cronium drive systems

Cost

5 billion

DR

16 (20 with shields)

HP

24

Weight

100 tons

Vehicle Agility

9

Time

8 weeks

Difficulty

21

Tech Level

6 (8 in EE & PS with shields)

Size

20 yards

Weapons

2 batteries, 4 Heavy rifles each

Crew

10

Slots

14/15

Destroyer: Size Class:2, docking/shuttle bay suitable for 2 fighters or 1
cutter Cronium drive systems

Cost

10 billion

DR

20 (24 with shields)

HP

40

Weight

1000 tons

Vehicle Agility

8

Time

16 weeks

Difficulty

22

Tech Level

6 (8 in EE & PS with shields)

Size

100yards

Weapons

2 cannons, 4 batteries of 4 heavy rifles

Crew

50

Slots

37/45

Cruiser: Size Class:3, docking/shuttle bay suitable for 4 fighters or 2
cutters Cronium drive systems

Cost

20 billion

DR

20 (26 with shields)

HP

60

Weight

10,000 tons

Vehicle Agility

8

Time

32 weeks

Difficulty

22

Tech Level

8

Size

200yards

Weapons

4 cannons, 6 batteries of 4 heavy rifles

Crew

150

Slots

64/75

Stellar Warship: Size Class:4, docking/shuttle bay suitable for 8 Cronium
drive systems

Cost

40 billion

DR

20 (28 with shields)

HP

80

Weight

100,000 tons

Vehicle Agility

8

Time

64 weeks

Difficulty

24

Tech Level

4

Size

400 yards

Weapons

Weapons 6 cannons, 8 Batteries of 4 Heavy rifles

Crew 300-500

Slots

95/100

Heavy Warship: Size Class:5, docking/shuttle bay suitable for 12 fighters or 6
cutters Cronium drive systems

Cost

80 billion

DR

22 (32 with shields)

HP

100

Weight

1e6 tons

Vehicle Agility

8

Time

128 weeks

Difficulty

24

Tech Level

8

Size

800 yards

Weapons

8 cannons, 12 Batteries of 4 Heavy rifles

Crew

500-600

Slots

162/180

Dreadnought: Size Class:6, docking/shuttle bay suitable for 24 fighters or 12
cutters Cronium drive systems

Cost

150 billion

DR

24 (36 with shields)

HP

160

Weight

10e6 tons

Vehicle Agility

8

Time

256 weeks

Difficulty

26

Tech Level

10

Size

2000 yards

Weapons

1 Assault Cannon, 12 Cannons, 16 Batteries of 4 Heavy rifles

Crew

1000+

Slots

312/350

###   Designing Space Ships

####   Size Classes

There are 7 basic size classes for ships in the COTA universe. Each size class
contains both military and civilian ships. The size classes are as follows:

Size Class

Ship Type

Length (yrds)

Weight (Tons)

Slots

1

Fighter/Shuttle

10

10

5

2

Scout/Corvette/Cutter

20

100

15

3

Destroyer/Transport

100

1000

45

4

Cruiser/Freighter

200

10000

75

5

Warship/Hauler

400

100,000

110

6

Heavy Warship/Transliner

800

1,000,000

180

7

Dreadnought/Metroliner/Metroplex

2000+

10,000,000

350

Slots represent space inside ships. Engines and shields each take up 1 slot
per size class of the vehicle. Heavy rifles take up 1 slot each (4 for a
battery), cannons take up 5 slots, the huge assault cannons take up 100 slots.
Life support takes up 1 slot per 20 crew and provides living space. Other
rooms take up 1 slot each (recreation rooms, kitchens, holorooms, bridge,
cargo).

The weight is calculated assuming a roughly rectangular (1x1x3) shape for
ships, which is the standard through most of the COTA universe. A ship of this
shape and configuration should be able to dock at pretty much any facility
encountered. It is possible, and even common to have custom built ships of
various shapes and sizes; however, they may have to provide their own docking
facilities or ferry over their passengers to various ports of transit via
various shuttlecraft.

Modern COTA maximum ship speeds are 1000 yards/second per vehicle agility
point, yielding a maximum vehicle velocity of 2.8e4 yards/second for a vehicle
with 28 Agility (a suped up fighter starship with Power Systems Mastery:base
(10+4) x 2). This is also the maximum engagement or combat speed, as well as
the maximum speed the chaos of jump space can be traversed. At any greater
speeds maneuverability becomes lethal and self destructive to the ships hull,
the inertial dampners cannot handle even the slightest course correction at
this speed causing flight path to be exceptionally limited and trajectory
estimation near perfect (making ships easy targets to vehicles that can match
their speed). It takes a single round to enter jump space. Ship acceleration
takes five rounds to go from zero velocity to maximum velocity. All space
faring vessels have a special vector engine fire mode of transport which
allows a maximum of 1e7 yards/second per vehicle agility point in full-thrust
mode in normal space. No maneuvering besides slowing down is possible in this
railroad method of travel.

Given the compression rate of Jump Space to normal space (1e10), and the
maximum ship speeds you can calculate how long a vessel takes to go 1000 light
years of normal space. Here's the calculation for the fastest fighter (28
agility) with a max speed of 28,000yards/sec. First a 1000 light years is how
many yards? A single light year in yards is 1.03461597e16. I calculated
3.2808399e8 yards/sec * 3600 sec/hr * 24 hr/day * 365.25 days/year =
1.03535433e16 then typed in light year in yards in Google and went with that
number (because I rounded off light in meters to be 3e8 and scaled that # to
yards/sec) :D. So given the compression ratio that single light year becomes
1.03461597e6 yards per light year. A thousand light years is simply
1.03461597e9 yards. Dividing this distance by our fighters maximum speed gives
3.695057e4 seconds or 10.264 hours. The longest it would take a ship to cover
that 1000 light years (8 vehicle agility minimum) is 35.9 hours, which is
longer than a day. For simplicity we let all vehicles travel 1000 light years
per day in jump space (smaller vehicles slow down, while larger vehicles speed
up).

####   Engines

Engines are often the most complex part of a starship, and yet, due to
advances in technology, and the presence of high-energy fuels such as cronium,
often the smallest in terms of overall size and volume. For most ships, the
engines take up a small percentage of the overall volume of the ship. Unless
you are dealing with exceptionally low tech (Lvl 2 or less), using 1/5th of a
ships total slots for propulsion is generally enough to propel of ship-mass at
the maximum speed the engine is capable of and accelerate to combat speeds in
5 seconds.

There are three basic classes of engines: In-System Light engines (referred to
as Insys), Stellar class Super-Light engines (referred to as C-Class), and
Cronium drives. As was stated earlier, all space faring vessels have a special
vector engine fire mode of transport which allows a maximum of 1e7
yards/second per vehicle agility point in full-thrust mode in normal space
(acceleration is 200 yards/sec2 per vehicle agility point (takes 5 seconds to
reach maximum combat velocity). No maneuvering besides slowing down is
possible in this railroad method of travel. For standard engagement speeds (in
space or atmospheres), or traversing jump space ships travel at 1000 yards per
second per vehicle agility point.

Insys engines are by far the most common types. They are present in most low-
grade fighters and shuttles, interplanetary craft, many transports and
freighters, mining vessels, and many, many other types of craft. Insys engines
are fission or fusion powered, and have no maintenance cost (running off of
interstellar hydrogen and other free particlaes that are scooped up during
flight). They are not capable of creating a tear and entering Jump Space
without other means (perhaps a willing Electro-Nav computer or other Warp
Master).

C-Class engines are what most people think of as Hyper Drive engines (although
that is a misnomer; technically, they would be Jump Drives. Hyperspace was
proven to be a mathematical myth in 2124). They run off of matter-antimatter
reactions. They are used in almost all Starships, even though they are far
less efficient (and effectively far slower) than cronium drives, due to the
huge difference in operational cost involved. C-Class engines require no cost
to upkeep/fuel while cronium drives require 1e9 credits per day of travel at
full speed through jump space (1000/light years per day). C-Class engines will
allow a ship to travel at speeds up to 10 light years a day when utilizing
jump space. This is due to the intability of Jump Space and the strain it puts
on the engines. If another means is used to enter Jump Space they may travel
indefinitely (daily upper limit about 1000 light years per day). Their
standard space speeds are the same as Insys engines (see above).

Cronium drives are at the pinnacle of engine technology. Basically a mini-
power generator of the sort used in large scale power plants, this drive may
utilize cronium to provide thrust for the ship, and is capable of propelling
ships at a rate of up to 1000 light years a day, while traversing jump space.
They are not seen all that often outside of military ships, however, due to
the fact that they are inordinately expensive to function, requiring a billion
sands of cronium a day to operate. All of the ships listed are equipped with
cronium drives unless otherwise noted. Note that almost all of these ships are
equipped with an Electro-Nav Computer (a lobotomized Immortal who's dream
state navigates the chaos of the warp). These Electro-Nav computers are
capable of opening gates to Jump Space on their own although in cases where it
occurs the Council of Time is sure to have a hand in quickly covering up the
incident. It sure would save alot of Cronium though…

####   Life Support Systems

The life support systems on a spaceship take up the most volume out of all of
the mechanics and gadgetry that a ship contains. The life support systems
consist of 3 major components: Gravity Generators, Atmospherics Units, and
Maintenance Conduits.

Gravity Generators are what allow modern spaceships to exist. Without them,
inertial forces would crush any living creatures traveling at the
accelerations needed to achieve interstellar velocities. Gravity Generators
damp this effect to sustainable (and often negligible) levels, and as a side
effect, are even able to provide an ambient gravity field within the ship.
Gravity Generator nodes must be spread at small intervals throughout the ship
in order for the dampening/artificial gravity effect to be uniform and smooth,
and so will usually take up around 10-30% of the total ship volume.

Atmospheric units are vital for some species, and not for others. However, for
the species that need them, they are an absolute necessity. Most modern
atmospheric units are capable of providing a sustained atmosphere of one type.
However, unlike the gravity generators, the Atmospheric unit can be placed all
together in one lump unit, and does not need to be spread throughout the ship.
Atmosphere can be piped to every location on board through the Maintenance
conduits.

Maintenance Conduits are pervasive tunnels that travel throughout the ship.
They are used for funneling Atmosphere, heat, power, water, and whatever other
materials are needed throughout the ship. Generally located under floorboards
and within wall gaps.

Many ships often contain redundant gravity generators and atmospherics, as the
loss of either one of those units spells pretty much certain death for all of
the ships crew and its passengers. Many ship owners find it quite worthwhile
having a command area.

####   The Bridge and Ship Command

The bridge is one unit of ship structure that is absolutely not necessary, but
which almost every singe ship possesses. In addition to something just not
being right about a ship without a bridge, the presence of a centralized
command location for most of the ships vital functions allows the size of a
ships necessary crew to be cut down to 1 Artificial Intelligence or captain
but for normal ship maintenance at least 1/3 of the normal size (i.e. a
skeleton crew can run the ship if necessary) is required. Traditionally,
roughly 1 slot of the ships volume is given over to the bridge, although this
is not necessary most command functions can fit into roughly 1% of the total
ship volume, although whether or not the necessary personnel can fit in to
control it, is another question. Quite often, ship owners will splurge on the
bridge, making it a fairly ostentatious and spacious area, to impress others
and improve the ships stature.

If a ship possesses an AI, the computer systems that house it tend to be
located within the bridge structure, to easily provide a thorough interface to
the rest of the ship.

Many times, the ships bridge is also an emergency life support vessel, fully
capable of detaching/ejecting from the ship, and providing full life support
for everyone within it, as well as minimal engines to allow it to reach a safe
location. Such bridges will take up double the volume (2 slots), to account
for the extra mechanics and gadgetry needed.

####   Other Units

Other units involved in ship construction include Habitat Units, Weapons
Systems, and Cargo Units. They are usually added to single slot increments,
although that is not necessary.

Habitat Units: Include plumbing systems, recycler units, barracks/cabins, and
common areas. They generally weigh in at 1 slot. They come equipped with
airlocks.

Cargo Units: Basically large empty spaces for storing stuff. Come equipped
with one external hatch/cargo bay doors. They weigh in at 1 ton per 100 cubic
yards.

Weapon Systems: These are present in various types and sizes. More detail
coming.

##   Making Equipment

It takes a craftsman 1/5 of the real market cost of an item to make it using
raw materials and circuits.

To make an item, a skill check is required at the end of the construction time
using the difficulty value of the item. Items may be constructed more
effectively by taking one's time. For every multiple of the final construction
time (after mods) up to 10 times you can add 1 point per time period to the
construction roll. For items that require multiple skills to make, one skill
roll or item construction roll is made using the constructors lowest level of
the required skills. For each point this construction roll exceeds the target
number 10% of the final construction time is reduced, to a minimum of 10% of
the final construction time.

###   Making Equipment with Matter Creation

Matter Creationists have wonderous advantages when making items.

First off, they don't need any materials besides Cronium as they can fabricate
what is needed.  They also gain +2 bonus skill levels to all construction
skills listed in the Matter Creation Power. They also get a boost to their
Thought for each level of Matter Creation.

Matter creationists also drastically reduce the time required to complete
construction. After calculating final contruction time, and additional
reduction in time is listed in the following table and is further decreased by
the increased levels of Matter Creation. Note that this table doesn't take
into account requirements on the amount of mass created, check the mass of the
object vs. the effective strength of the power to see what this limitation is
in total number of actions (and given actions per round seconds, minutes etc).
Repairing existing items that arent destroyed take 1/10th of the creation
time. The minimum time it takes to create any object is 1 action.

Matter Creation Power Level

Construction Times

1second

1minute

1hour

1day

1week

1month

1year

1

1act

1sec

64sec

32min

4hrs

16hrs

8days

2

1act

1act

32sec

16min

2hrs

8hrs

4days

3

1act

1act

16sec

8min

1hr

4hrs

2day

4

1act

1sec

8sec

4min

15min

2hrs

1day

5

1act

1act

4sec

2min

7min

1hr

12hrs

6

1act

1act

2sec

1min

3min

32min

6hrs

7

1act

1act

1sec

32sec

1min

16min

3hrs

8

1act

1act

1act

16sec

32sec

8min

1hr

9

1act

1act

1act

8sec

16sec

4min

32min

10

1act

1act

1act

4sec

8sec

2min

16min

11

1act

1act

1act

2sec

4sec

1min

8min

12

1act

1act

1act

1sec

2sec

32sec

4min

13

1act

1act

1act

1act

1sec

16sec

2min

14

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

8sec

1min

15

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

4sec

32sec

16

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

2sec

16sec

17

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

1sec

8sec

18

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

4sec

19

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

2sec

20

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

1act

1sec

In general each level of Matter Creation power gained approximately halves the
time for the previous level rounding down until the value is less than one. To
use the table calculate the final construction time after making the
construction roll. Then using the largest time increment calculate the actual
time needed, then repeat this step for the next largest time increment,
smaller time increments may be ignored. Once the time gets down to 1 action
for the largest time increment, no further lookups are needed total
construction time takes one action.

##   People, Creatures, and Races

###   Agents of the Council

Angels

Angels form the brunt of the Councils troops. They are genetically manipulated
human beings, bred to be stronger, faster, tougher, and incredibly awe-
inspiring. They attack in large groups, as squads or as an army. Though they
have no Immortal powers, they are often used to hunt down and capture rougue
Immortals. They have been modified to have huge angelic wings, and often use
flying tactics to confuse and capture their opponents.

Description: Winged Angelic forms, these are the shock troops of the Council
of Time. Awe Inspiring bringers of death and destruction. Equip: Angelic Plate
(golden, +6DR), Plasma Sword + 1 battery, Plasma Rifle + 4 clips Winged Flight
(move X2 speed)

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

10

10

12

10

10

10

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Alertness,Climb,Stealth:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

10

18/18

29/29

16 (Plasma Sword or Rifle)

2

4Dur+2Skin+6Armor=12/36

Tough Skin,Grit 2

10(20 Flight)

Arch-Angels

Description: Winged Angelic forms, these are the elite troops and troop
leaders of the Council of Time. Awe-Inspiring bringers of death and
destruction. Subpowers: Tough Skin, Grit 4 Equip: Pinnacle of Structural
Design Angelic Plate (golden, +10DR), Masterwork Plasma Sword, Masterwork
Plasma Rifle

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

12

12

12

12

12

12

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Awareness,Climb,Stealth,Flight:10

Masteries

Melee(Quickdraw),Missile(Gun Kata),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Masteries

Alertness(Panoramic Vision),Climb(SpiderClimb),Stealth(Backstab)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

22

24/24

35/35

18 Plasma Sword, 16 Plasma Rifle)

3

4Dur+2Skin+10Armor=16/60

Tough Skin,Grit 4

12(24 Flight)

Shadow Agents

Shadow Agents are the elite of the Council enforcement team. They tend to
operate on a more individual basis, tending to hit the undercover assignments,
rather than going in as an armed enforcement division as the angels do. They
function as an intelligence agency for the Council, spreading throughout most
of human space. They have a few of the Immortals powers, though they are not
Immortal themselves, making them incredibly fierce superhuman opponents. They
have a strong form of regeneration (but not body reconstruction they can still
be killed), they can alter their shape, distort the perception of reality
around them, see into distant places, and teleport. They dont need to breath,
and can survive unprotected in almost any environment. They can pull weapons
out of nowhere, and can be completely undetectable when they wish. They
operate singly or in groups, depending on the situation, and are very diligent
about tracking down those the Council sends them to hunt.

Description: The MIB Superhuman undercover agents working for The Council of
Time. Powers: Shapeshift 2, Cloak & Illusion 2, Body Regeneration 2,Contiuum
Control 2 Subpowers: Grit 3 Equip: 2 Plasma Pistols,Armored stealth suit +6DR

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

10

12

10

10

10

10

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:10 Pilot Starship,Alertness,Climb,Stealth:8

Masteries

Melee(Quickdraw),Missile(Ambidexterity),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

20

22/22

33/33

10+Str or 12 Melee, 14 (Plasma Pistols)

3+1offhand

3Dur+2Skin+6Armor=11/40

Shapeshift 2, Cloak & Illusion 2, Body Regeneration 2,Contiuum Control 2,Grit
3

12,Shapeshift:2

Elite Agents

Description: These are the best of the best. Superhuman undercover agents
working for The Council of Time. Powers: Shapeshift 6- specialist:
Vicous:3,Tough:3,GritMaster:3,Skilled Melee:3, Cloak & Illusion 4, Body
Regeneration 2,Contiuum Control 6 - specialist Range Mastery:3,Skilled
Alertness:3 Subpowers: Grit 4(7) Equip: Plasma Pistol, Pinnacle of Structural
Design Stealth Suit +10DR, Enhanced Personal shields +8 DR

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

10

16

12

12

12

10

Skills

Melee:14(17),Alertness,Missile,Acrobatica:14,Pilot Starship,Climb,Stealth:10

Masteries

Melee(Quickdraw,Lethal Targeting),Missile(Ambidexterity,Gun
Kata),Acrobatica(Anime Leap,Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Alertness(Panoramic Vision,Danger Sense),Pilot Starship(Defensive Maneuvering)

Masteries

Climb(SpiderClimb),Stealth(Backstab)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

22

33/30

46/43

STR+Weapon or STR+9 (shapeshifting), 14 (Plasma Pistol)

4+1offhand

4Dur+9Skin+10Armor+8Shields=31/96

Shapeshift 6, Cloak & Illusion 4, Body Regeneration 2,Contiuum Control 6,Grit
4(7)

16, Shapeshift:6

###   Alien Races

####   Xelomites

They were more than the demons and devils of legend, over seven foot tall with
and extra foot of spikes and horns. Their humanoid bodies scaled, and muscled
almost beyond imagination. The automatic plasma bursts fired by the troopers
did nothing more than slow the first Xelomite as they were later called down.
As the plasma burnt at it's scales new flesh appeared. Dark green ooze that
emitted a haunting scream was the only sign that the creature had been harmed.
The Xelomites tower over 7 feet tall and their extraordinarily muscled frames
cause their mass to be 500+lbs. Their home dimension is jump space where they
randomly attack or grab onto ships traveling by. Xelomites value Cronium, a
multidimensional material that powers ships that travel through jump space for
prolonged periods exists in jump space and normal space. The use of Cronium by
humans and other star faring races has been thought to be the original
motivation for Xelomites enmity with humanity. Xelomites are feared not only
for their attacks but for what they do to their victims. Only a small number
are devoured, the rest are transformed into Xelomite offspring within large
organic sacs. When a Xelomite is destroyed it is merely banished to jump space
and may reform a new physical body in 24 hours. A Xelomite destroyed in jump
space is forced to create a new physical body using standard Body
Reconstruction rules (4 weeks base).

Xelomites

Description: Description: 7ft tall Demonic humanoids. Superhuman creatures
that attack space travellers. Powers: Shapeshift 6 - specialist:
Vicous:3,Tough:3,GritMaster:3,Skilled Melee:3, Warp Control 2, Body
Reconstruction 1 Subpowers: Grit 2(5),Thick Skin Equip: none

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

12

12

12

12

12

12

Skills

Melee:4(15),Alertness,Acrobatica,Climb,Stealth:10

Masteries

Melee(Ambidexterity)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

12

27/12

38/33

STR+Weapon or STR+9(shapeshift) (+3 Melee)

3+1offhand

4Dur+11Skin=15/72

Shapeshift 6, Warp Control 2, Body Reconstruction 1,Grit 2,Thick Skin

12, Shapeshift:6

Xelomite Lords

Description: 9ft tall Demonic humanoids. Superhuman creatures that attack
space travellers. Powers: Shapeshift 10 - specialist:
Vicous:5,Tough:5,GritMaster:5,Skilled Melee:3,Inconceivable:, Warp Control 6,
Body Reconstruction 4,Contiuum Control 6 Subpowers: Grit 4(9),Thick Skin
Equip: none

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

16

18

12

14

12

Skills

Melee:2(21),Alertness,Astrogation:4(10),Acrobatica,Climb,Stealth:10

Masteries

Melee(Quick Draw, Ambidexterity, Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection)

Masteries

Astrogation(Linear Algebra),Alertness(Panoramic Vision),Acrobatica (Anime
Leap)

Masteries

Climb(SpiderClimb),Stealth(Backstab)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

33

37/16

50/39

14+Weapon or 30 (2xShapeshift) (+3 Melee)

4+1offhand

6Dur+17Skin=23/180

Shapeshift 10, Warp Control 6, Body Reconstruction 4,Contiuum Control 6,Grit
4(9),Thick Skin

16, Shapeshift:10

###   Other Folks

Security Forces One of the most common encounters will be with various
security forces across the galaxy. For the most part, they are pretty uniform
in their abilities. They are often found patrolling in hover vehicles, or
stationed as guards.

Security Forces

Description: Description: One of the most common encounters will be with
various security forces across the galaxy. For the most part, they are pretty
uniform in their abilities. They are often found patrolling in hover vehicles,
or stationed as guards. Powers: None Subpowers: None Equip: Stun Baton: Str+2
damage stun, Mag Pistol (Dam: 10+), Ceramic Armor (+6 DR)

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4

4

4

4

4

4

Skills

Melee,Missile,Alertness,Acrobatica,Climb,Stealth:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

4

8/8

19/19

4+Weapon or 10

1

1Dur+6Armor=7/4

None

4

Elite Battle Armor Troopers Equipment: Full Body Suit, Powered Armor (12DR+4
Shields, 12HP), veh agility:16 Built in Heavy Laser Rifle:(Dam: 16+) Str: 4
(10) Agi: 8 Dur: 8 Tht: 4 Wil: 4 Prs: 4 Skills: Melee: 8 Missile: 8
Acrobatics: 8 Hit: 16+ Evade: 27 DR: 16 Armor HP:12, Trooper HP:8

Elite Battle Armor Troopers

Description: Elite soldiers trained to combat in Full Body Armor Powers: None
Subpowers: None Equip: Mag Pistol (Dam: 10+),Full Body Armor(Powered Armor)
(12DR+4 Shields, 12HP), veh agility:16, Built in Heavy Laser Rifle:(Dam: 16+)

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4(10)

8

8

4

4

4

Skills

Melee,Missile,Alertness,Acrobatica,Climb,Stealth:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

8

16/16

27/27

10+Weapon or 16

2

16/12HP (suit), or 2Dur/8

None

8 (16 in armor)

Electro-Immortal Nav Computers

Price: 50 billion sands Description: These immortals were lobotomized before
becoming immortals by the council and are currently being produced (in ultra
secret labs in link space and free space that are monitored by council
members). The have Electrokinesis and are masters of the warp as well as being
capable of Astrogation. They perform basic functions, but their personalities
have been wiped. Knowledge of the electro-immortals is completely secret as
the nav computers are believed to be advanced Council technology. Expendable
(without Body Reconstruction) variants were constructed but often weren't up
to the capabilities of the immortal versions (standard). Either way it is said
that these sad individuals are in a permanent dreaming state as some ghost of
their former selves, this same pseudo consciousness allows them to construct
potent AI's and integrate well with computer systems, as well as going
“beyond” by using the potent mastery Linear Algebra. Entire ships have been
destroyed by Xelomites while floating sarcophagi were found with “living” Nav
Computers. Electro-Immortal Nav Computers rarely open up gates to Jump space
themselves, but in dire circumstances have been know to do so to save the
vessel they navigate for. Powers: Electrokinesis: 6, Master of the Warp: 6,
Body Reconstruction:1. Subpowers: None Equip: Sarcophagus (apparatus that
houses their physical form)

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

NA

NA

12

12

12

0

Skills

Warp Control, Computer Systems: 8(14)

Masteries

Warp Control(Linear Algebra),Computer Systems(Create AI)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Powers

Move

12

NA/NA

NA/NA

NA

NA

4Dur/12

Electrokinesis: 6, Master of the Warp: 6, Body Reconstruction:1.

NA

#   Setting

##   History

Sometime in the early 21st century, corporations began to take over a large
percentage of the governmental issues of then forming global government.
Economic power and control began to become more and more valuable,
anddecisions came to be made by those who could put out enough products to
keep the population happy with their presence. As a result, research and
development began to sky rocket; all the powerful corporations were the ones
who could put out new and exciting products the fastest, and thus keep the
largest number of consumers loyal.

One of the Research and Development divisions of the Time-Warner-BioLife
conglomeration, known as the Council of Time, focused it's research on a
subject of vast concern to people throughout time; namely, how to reverse the
effects of aging on the human body.

After several years of intense effort and research, they actually began to
come out with some interesting products; youth creams that really kept you
looking younger, good plastic surgery techniques, effectively, many different
ways to keep you looking like you were 30 until the day you died of old age.

Their real break, though, came when the leadership of the R&D group came under
the control of two individuals: Professor Cronus Garett, and Dr. Elliot Lakes.
These two revolutionized the whole process of enhanced life research.
Professor Garett was a mad genius of sorts, willing to do next to anything to
achieve the results he desired. Dr. Lakes was a relatively brilliant
researcher, though no Dr. Garett; however, politically speaking, he was
unmatchable. Between his political control and public relations skills, and
Dr. Garett's genius, the two of them began to lead the Council of Time to new
heights.

What they were really interested in was immortality. Not the stuff that kept
you looking young until the day you died, or the stuff that let you live for
over a couple hundred years, but the type of immortality that let you live
forever, unable to be killed. They shifted a large amount of the capital
resource of the Time- Warner-Biolife conglomerate into the studies of extended
life, as they referred to it, and began to develop a method to achieve true
immortality.

They had to work in secret, though. Even in those days, medical research upon
humans was still strictly regulated, and if they had waited for the permission
to get such work done, they might never have achieved results. So they did all
their work in secret. Many of their experiments involved unwitting or
unknowing hosts, who often were abducted and underwent a post-hypnotic memory
erasure to ensure the security of the project, before they were returned to
their daily lives. Many of these subjects died soon after their release, due
to severe gene-tampering and other medical techniques that were still being
refined having been practiced upon them. The miniscule percentage that went on
to live were regarded as “successes”, and were quickly framed, captured, and
quarantined under the guise of law enforcement, via the manipulations of Dr.
Lakes. The survivors were placed into a deep coma like state though cryogenic
suspension or electro-pulse capacitance techniques.

After the success rate began to approach 99%, the research was stopped. There
had been several thousand successful conversions, by that point, including
many of the members of the Council. By that point, The Council also included
Harry “Doom” Irish, Elid Jones, Gary Garcon and several others.

Unfortunately, soon afterwards the project goals and some details, including
the illegal experimentation, were leaked, and after a messy press release new
Monopoly laws were proposed by the United Federation of Earth to break up the
Council. Many members of society saw the Council of Time as attempting to
defile the “natural” order of things. With a bit of luck and a lot of talent
the public relations director, Dr. Lakes smoothed things over with the
populace by announcing a tremendous deep space exploration project that
required a long lived crew. This cover story was quickly backed up by and
expanded upon by several scientists(well paid scientists) under the lead of
Research director Cronus Garett. Cronus had several “starship” plans laid out
and the development was already in progress (of several hollow spaceship
frames).

All of the successful experiments (with the exception of those who were on the
Council, of course), were forced onto the star-ships and put in a form of
suspension, supposedly to prevent resource drain upon the ship. They were sent
out with a goal to perform long-range exploration of the nearby galaxy, to be
wakened when “something interesting was found”. Over 300 of these ships were
sent out. They were given the name of “Arks” by Dr. Lakes. as “they represent
the future and the lifeblood of the human race”. Their passengers quickly
became known as Children of the Arks.

Back on Earth, however, Dr. Garett destroyed all of his research notes to
prevent other corporations and power groups from gaining his abilities. As a
result, the Council of Time came to posses immense political power and wealth
on Earth, as other groups tried to gain favors from them in hopes of being
made immortal themselves. Eventually, they came to a point where they
practically controlled all of Earth and Earth-Space from behind the scenes,
with the governments just being figureheads to their power.

Thousands of years passed and each year the council of Time's power grew.
Although complete control was established late in the 21rst century as time
passed the Council's rulership took a subtler role. From behind the scenes
supporting popular new faces, Lakes puppeted thousands of leaders with
apparent morale idealism. Earth grew prosperous under the Council's control
and new technologies like space folding allowed for the colonization of locale
star systems. Unfortunately this folding required incredibly complex
calculations in a shifting environment, something beyond even the tremendous
processing power of quantum computers. After several accidents and Lake's
careful “cover stories” Dr. Garett installed new computational marvels in the
core of every star ship. Their ability to transfer and control power as well
as repairing damaged ship systems was miraculous. No accidents occurred and
human colonization/expansion proceeded smoothly. The new “computers” were in
actuality electro- immortals. Although the secret for creating these immortals
was long ago destroyed, Dr. Garett's memory was not. He generated thousands of
electro-immortals from doomed prisoners and political enemies. When put into
an energy harmonic state the will of the electro-immortals was broken(
lobotomized) and they became not very different from super computers. Not even
the captain of these star ships was privy to the nature of the core. The
installations were preformed by the Council of Time's elite squad of
superhumans, the Angels. The nature of the Angels was a human base given some
of the powers of the immortals. There abilities included but were not limited
to, long life span, no need for food, sleep or air, temperature variation
resistance, increased strength and reflexes as well as winged flight. They had
full knowledge of the Council's control but not full knowledge of its plans.

A new life form was discovered in 7220 that changed everything. They were
first discovered nesting in an apparently abandoned solar system freighter
near star Xelom III. A group of military reckons troopers came upon cocoons
that sparkled with green electricity. The cocoons opened and the troopers
opened fire. The creatures that emerged drove the troopers insane. They were
more than the demons and devils of legend, over seven foot tall with and extra
foot of spikes and horns. Their humanoid bodies scaled, and muscled almost
beyond imagination. The automatic plasma bursts fired by the troopers did
nothing more than slow the first Xelomite as they were later called down. As
the plasma burnt at it's scales new flesh appeared. Dark green ooze that
emitted a haunting scream was the only sign that the creature had been harmed.

In a moment the freighter was once again silent. Out of the forty troopers
that investigated the freighter one survived, and four new cocoons were the
only sign that they had been there.

Immediately great forces were sent out to hunt down the Xelomite devils. Signs
of their passing were death and destruction. Over twenty star ships had been
lost to the Xelomites in the first year they were discovered. This loss was
cause for alarm in the Council.

Both Elliot Lakes and Cronus Garett were forced into a defensive position they
had never experienced before. All hope wasn't lost though. One of the
Xelomites had been captured by a team of Angels. Garett discovered that these
creatures were not unlike the immortals. They represented a new threat to the
dominance of the Council, new immortals were being created by these creatures
out of humans who weren't destroyed or consumed. A crusade for their capture
began and many of the Xelomites were put into cryo-stasis on the homeworld
Earth.

###   Time Line

Date Event

2040 Council of Time forms

2050 First Immortal Experiment occurs.

2055 Several Thousand immortal experiments have taken place, many of which are
successful. News begins to leak to the public.

2056 News of Arks released by Council in response to public outcry.

2057 Ark Construction begins.

2063 First Ark released. Several hundred immortals trapped on board.

2069 Over 500 Arks have been sent out, taking all of the immortals with them
except the council. Council begins political takeover of Earth.

2080 Council is DeFacto rulers of most of Earth, except for small 3rd world
countries that are slowly being obliterated.

2122 The last Ark has been sent out making the total 5000 ships. Lakes's
alternate ego at that time begins the moral bashing Of genetic research to
help hide the discoveries of the council.

2316 Mars Colony founded. Rapid terraforming proceeds under specially
appointed council teams. (Council members use life and matter creation to
secretly aid their efforts).

2343 Mars Colony firmly established as a self- sustaining colony under Council
control.

2974 Alpha-Centauri Colonies founded. Travel time to Alpha Centauri ranges
from 6 to 9 years, depending on area of Centauri System. (Council possesses
instantaneous teleportation abilities, which is what allows the colony to
survive. This information is kept secret).

3106 The Council releases knowledge of their discovery of jumpspace.

3113 The Jump Space Folding drive was developed, allowing “normal” human
interstellar travel.

3120 Human Diaspora begins. Many extra-solar colonies formed.

3444 Chronium discovered. Humanity begins to spread across the galaxy.

5641 Radiance forms, sealing off the core of Human Space. Human sphere of
influence divided into FreeSpace and Linked Space. Council begins to fade from
direct control of FreeSpace.

7220 Xelomites discovered. Xelomite War begins.

7281 The majority of Xelomite Lords make one final massive invasion against
Earth by opening a tear from Jump Space next to the planet, but fall prey to
an elaborate trap developed by Elliot Lakes and Cronus Garett.

7282 Council intervenes in FreeSpace, to help control the Xelomite Scourge.

10240 First immortal sleepers wake up, find the galaxy vastly changed. Humans
have colonized large regions of space. Earth forbidden and location hidden.
10400 Council begins to hunt down and imprison immortals or use them.

12000 Current game time, the immortals wake up…

###   The Xelomite Invasion of 7281

####   Preface

By the late 7100s the Xelomite Lords had amassed great armies of immortals.
Their internal disputes for control and power were quashed by the Arch-Lord
Kelxor. Under his unified rule the Xelomites were quickly overpowering, and
absorbing large portions of the Council's fleets throughout space. As powerful
as the Council member's were, their direct influence couldn't cover a large
enough area to the stop the flood of biological warships in their sporadic
raids against many of the worlds of Freespace, even those close to Radiance.

####   Council Member Elliot Lakes Personal Journal: The Plan, June 7281

“The Xelomite menace grows with each passing moment exponentially. Our forces
can only maintain a geometric growth. Inevitably at the current rate of
attrition of our forces, we are looking at a full scale collapse of the
Council's influence and anarchy in less than one year. In direct conflicts the
elder Council members and myself have crushed every X-fleet (Xelomite) we have
encountered. Unfortunately our direct presence is limited in space time
compared to the regions of the attacks. Even with my current level of
Influence and Contiuum powers, I can only protect a limited region of free
space and our fleets have been coralled around several of the gates at the
edge of Radiance. The Xelomite Arch-Lord Kelxor is aware of it's tactical
advantage, and would have likely allowed this war to grind out until we were
left with a small chunk of the galaxy over which our (Council's) influence
cannot be denied. I have sensed the psychic emanations from the Arch-Lord, and
the one thing that creature wants more than anything else is to make a direct
assault against Link Space. Thus far it believes that it's presence in Link
Space is concealed, and that the army it has been “secretly” amassing in Core
Jump Space adjacent to the heart of Link Space (the Gap separates this section
of Jump Space from that of Free Space) goes unnoticed by the Council. Elid
Jones has been using his power of Illusions and Cloaking his own presence,
while scanning the confines of Core Jump Space with Contiuum Control and
keeping track of the armada Kelxor is constructing. I had incorrectly believed
only we Council members had the power to cross the Gap, but it appears that
Kelxor has developed a knack over Contiuum Control, specialized in Gate
distance to allow the Xelomites of Free Space to cross the Gap in a number of
Gate jumps.

The plan I have developed requires some luck to succeed, something I've been
loathe to depend upon throughout the ages of my existence. No creature or
number of creatures in my estimation can stand against the raw physical
dominance of Cronus Garett. His role in my plan is integral although his
martial skills will be tested, he's asked that we send no assistance to him
when the trap is sprung. It's not enough that we defeat the Xelomite scourge,
they must know that a single Council member was able to crush their heart of
their forces and their most powerful Lord. Then they will know Fear!

Simply logged, I have arranged for the local system defenses of the Sol
Dysonsphere to suffer a crippling sabotage to a network of Kelxor's key
infiltration Xelomite agents (their mastery of shapeshifting has proved
irksome in the realm of security). Normally a vast number of passive and
active military bases and local ships are coordinated through a rotating
network of AI's that maintain their core processing in parallel over several
sections of the Sol Dysonsphere. I have allowed the locations of this
network's nodes to be known to Kelxor's spies. Of course I had backup nodes
developed just for this purpose in case they really are needed. We plan on
destroying all of their biological fleet with local space armaments, while
Elid and myself block all attempts at opening up local tear's into Jump Space.
A series of sweeper Agent task forces has been deployed on Earth to employ
Ghost webs that can capture the essence of destroyed Xelomites in the time we
are actively blocking their return to Core Jump Space.”

####   Council Member Cronus Garett Personal Journal: The Trap is Sprung,
August 7281

“Elliot with Elid's support had outperformed my expectations as usual. The
Plan has gone flawlessly. Either Kelxor is unaware of it, or its ego is as
great as my own. On this clear night, I can see thousands of Xelomite escape
pods being annhilated by Earth's fully operational defense network. Its
massive X-fleet came through a tremendous gate from Core Jump Space only a few
minutes ago. I can only imagine the surprise it suffered as the Gate to Core
Jump Space was cut off by Elliot and Elid after his forces swept through. Some
of the biopods will make it to the surface, near where their Xelomite Arch-
Lord Kelxor has portalled down and begun setting up a biological war camp on
Earth's surface, in the once serene and lush fields over Old Colorado. By
opening my consciousness I can perceive the boundaries of their network, there
is an alien emotion of apprehension(?) and caution I can sense from Kelxor,
that echoes throughout all the Xelomites under his influence. Of course it
must be concerned why it hasn't encountered any defensive ground forces. It's
time I instruct this creature and its species what it means to cross the
Council in our Galaxy, and on my Homeworld!”

With a force that shattered the very surface of the planet, Cronus shifted
into a form approximated 15feet tall made of some incomprehensibly dense
organic metal and soared at speeds surpassing Einstein's relativistic limits
into the Xelomite scouts about the boundary of their newformed base
effectively forming a whirling shell of death a fixed radius about the heart
of the Xelomite Arch-Lord.

The Arch-Lord sensed the disruption, and immediately activated biological
constructs that began forming new Xelomite-like creatures, identical in all
respects but without the immortal ability to reform in Jump Space to be used
as “raw materials”. It then began manufacturing a single cohesive titanic
living organic armor extension of itself in preparation for it's favorite form
of entertainment, martial combat. In only a second, it had forged all the
residual biomass into one being, an extension of it's supreme will, constantly
growing and writhing. The small humanoid creature slowed down, hovering,
perhaps in awe of Kelxor's will. Surrounded by a constellation of hundreds of
thousands of Xelomites and hundreds of Lords.

The battle raged between the titans for several hours, Cronus viciously
annhilating the Xelomite soldiers only slowing slightly as he crushed the
Xelomite Lords. Sporadically, Cronus would make direct attacks against Kelxor,
destroying more of the creature's form using a wickedly large two-handed
shapeshifted blade equal to his height, only to have the creature regrow and
counter attack. When the creature was able to successfully strike Cronus,
which was rare, the force of the attacks was beyond that of focused anti-
matter explosions, slightly injuring Cronus but nothing beyond the threshold
of his passive self healing abilities. And thus the battle contiuued between
these juggernauts neither gaining an advantage but all the while testing the
reaction and immortal wills of Kelxor and Cronus. After the Xelomite soldier
and lords were cleansed, their essences were captured by specialized Ghost web
Agents while Kelxor and Cronus battled on. Kelxor extended several massive
tendrils from itself mangling several of the Agent extraction teams, until
Cronus adjusted and parried any further attacks outwards. The clash of these
impacts formed impact craters into the surface of the earth, and released
bursts of radiation out into space disabling EM shielded satellites and
electronic systems on the interior surface of the Sol Dysonphere several light
minutes away.

It was in the thirteenth and final hour of their battle that Kelxor had
exhausted all nearby biological material it could muster. Breaking free of the
once living shell it had created the Xelomite Arch-Lord knew their was only an
instant, a fraction of a single breath for one final act. Then something
unthinkable happened. The mighty and proud leader of the Xelomites surrendered
and addressed Cronus, “Victory for me now is impossible, what matter of
creation are you so that I may know the name of my enemy?” Cronus waited in
his response until Agent teams had cleared the area, “I am Cronus, cofounder
of the Council, and defender of Earth. I have lived over five thousand years
and committed unspeakable attrocities in the name of progress, and fear. Do
the ends justify the means? Hahahahaha, that's not for us to judge, but I take
comfort in knowing you and your kind shall never dwell in Link Space as long
as I breathe. It's time I sent you back to Hell!” Cronus moved with a great
overhead energy arc as his blade crashed down through the upraised parrying
clawblades of the once great Kelxor. The blow split the creature in two and
fading energy burst out from all directions blasting a huge crater. Then there
was only silence.

##   Current Affairs

###   Linked Space

####   A Brief History

LinkedSpace is 30 light-years accross. It is surrounded by the gap, which
forms a 300 lightyear shell around LinkedSpace. The whole region centers on
Sol (the solar system of Earth). It has been separated from the rest of the
universe via some means that only the Council really understands.

All the stars in LinkedSpace have been enclosed in dyson spheres called Nodes.
There are large “Conduits”, as they are called, that travel from Node to Node.
Conduits range anywhere from 100 to 1000 miles in diameter, and 4 to 10 light-
years in length. Together, the inner surfaces of the Nodes and Conduits
provide more habitable space than can possibly be comprehended. So much so
that there is one person in linked space for each atom in the rest of the
universe. == Builder Beasts and Other Creatures ==

####   Earth and Sol

The sol Dysonsphere radius reaches just beyond Earth. This tremendous project
was built by the Council members along with Link space over thousands of
years. Great Builder Beasts constructed by the council members were
instinctual creatures that constantly developed more material in huge
proportions. In the guise of “fabricator units”, dreadnought sized ships with
a control panel that linked directly into the creature's nervous system,
Builder Beasts formed the backbone of linkspace. Along with the council
members power a miniature universe thirty light years about Earth was formed.
Unfortunately accidents did happen and in several cases documented by Black
Ops, toxic fumes created by the Builder Beasts in a desperate attempt to
reproduce infected hundreds of millions of workers with Builder spores,
mutating them and forcing Black Ops to quarantine those affected. Elliot
Lakes' cover up story called the Builder spores a terrorist attack by
unsanctioned labor unions, damaging the credibility of the unions and
increasing worker efficiency by 4.7%. Modern day replicators use energy mass
converters to minimize the number of “accidents”.

Earth's defensive systems are varied and well supplied. The basic space fleet
available in just a few minutes of alert is at least ten thousand
dreadnoughts, an array of orbital defense satellites provides additional
support, and last but certainly not least, a couple of Council members. The
Dysonsphere has several large gates, large holes in its structure for ships to
pass through. These are well guarded by hundreds of cannons, heavy rifle
batteries and several assault weapons (huge cannons). Within the Dysonsphere,
much like Link Space, an artificial atmosphere has been developed covering
great mountains and oceans on its inner surface. The inner surface of the
sphere is covered with agricultural farms and plant life. A high density of
human civilization can be found within the Sol sphere. A popular location in
the Sol Dysonsphere

There are larger planets with greater resources within the Council's reach,
but Earth is the symbolic home of the Council of Time. It has been cultivated
as an ecological masterpiece. Earth has been redesigned as a habitat of
natural beauty and wonder, an Organic Utopia, at least on the surface. Most
dwellings lie below the surface of earth, those that remain on the surface
blend into their surroundings. Two examples of this are the great tree city of
Ma-enu and the northern ice castle Cartain, based on ice covered adamantium
columns that reach high into the sky. Below the surface a network of magnetic
transportation tunnels and thousands of city type environments house billions
of individuals. The ruling groups of Various organizations under the thumb of
the council are located primarily on the homeworld.

####   The Structure of Linked

Space Nodes Conduits The Linked Space Armada Culture of Linked Space
Populations Military Council Influence Immortals, Agents, and Angels Economy

###   Radiance and The Gap

And Surrounding Paradise was the Desert.

When They created Eden, around it They placed the Void. Whilst there wasland
aplenty in Eden, places where Man could live unfettered, protected by the
Their Glory, There was only Emptiness in the Void. No Food, nor Drink, nor Air
to Breathe; the Void was Death to all who entered it. It took us 4 weeks.

4 Weeks of hell, living through that never ending light and heat. Growing ever
stronger, ever hotter. We couldn't even check on the status of our hull
anymore. all of the external heat sensors had long since burned out. Before us
stretched a never- ending sheet of fire; behind us, nothing. There was
something there, of course; we just couldn't see it from the contrast. Our
eyes, and our ships eyes had begun to burn out from watching that sheet of
hellfire for so long.

Every day, the crew asked me to turn back. It's madness, they would say. No
one has ever gone through Radiance. There's no treasure there; it's just a
huge bloomin' freak-thing of nature. Turn Back, Captain. We're dyin' here.
They didn't know what I knew, though. They hadn't seen the dying Angel, trying
desperately to find someone, Anyone, to take it to Radiance. There was heaven
on the other side, and I intended to walk into it. Alive.

Surrounding Linked Space is a large void, where all mass has been removed, to
make it incredibly difficult for Void Ships (space ships that traveled without
transference to Jump Space) to approach Linked Space unnoticed. The Gap is a
sphere 330 light years in radius, centered around Sol. The inner 30 lightyears
comprise Linked Space, leaving an actual void of 300 lightyears that any ship
approaching linked space has to cross.

The reason that this is effective as a barrier was that most Void Ships
supplemented their on- board fuel supplies in two ways to assist in making
long-term Void crossings. In either case the crew generally enters a state of
suspended animation in cryo-tanks allowing them to survive the long journey.
The first fuel method was by using ram- scoops to funnel interstellar hydrogen
into their engines, created a fusion boost to assist their power supply. This
method wasn't very reliable, since any well traveled area was generally pretty
low in the interstellar hydrogen supply, from thousands of years of ram-scoops
funneling it all up.

The other method, one that was fairly heavily relied upon, was known as
Stellar Coasting. This involved spreading a large magnetic field around the
ship for the purpose of catching streams on charged ions emitted by nearby
stars, known as the Stellar Winds. Ships were able to virtually sail on these
stellar winds, catching them in their magnetic sails, and adding a significant
boost to their velocity. This was a huge resource, seeing as to how it was
virtually unlimited in supply, and allowed the ships to greatly extend their
range on a limited fuel supply. A ship that could use Stellar Coasting as a
method of traveling would only need to use its onboard fuel as a supplement to
the Stellar wind, useful mainly for invoking course corrections and emergency
maneuvers.

Stellar Wind was even harder to find in the Gap than interstellar hydrogen.
The reason for this is that the outer boundary of the gap was defined by a
somewhat intangible forcefield (See Radiance) that blocked all forms of
incoming energy from entering Linked Space. Not only did this block all
Stellar Wind, it also blocked the light from other stars. As a result, as soon
as one entered the Gap, it immediately became completely dark. There were no
indications of any stars or other bodies outside the Gap, as their energies
were blocked by the Gap Wall. There was nothing from inside, either, as
everything inside was located 300 light- years away, within Linked Space, and
enclosed within a conduit or a node.

One thing of note: From outside of Linked Space, the Gap Wall is known by a
different name. For the people of the other side, it is known as Radiance.
From that side, a property of the Gap Wall becomes readily apparent: the fact
it doesn't simply absorb all incoming energy; rather, it reflects it. From
outside, the Gap resembles a huge opalescent sphere 330 light-years in radius,
shimmering through all of the colors of the rainbow. Because of this property,
it is also incredibly hard to approach the Gap Wall from the outside; the
radiation levels emitting from its outer boundary could rival that of a strong
star.

Tracking ships once they entered the Gap was a relatively easy matter, due to
two reasons. One was that due to the fact that there was no other mass
anywhere around it, any ship entering the Gap mmediately threw off the balance
of the local gravity well. Meters in Linked Space have no problem picking up a
mass even as small as a human, due to the symmetrically balanced nature of
Linked Space, which left a net gravitational field of Zero running through the
entire region.

The other reason was the Gap Wall. Any energy emitted by the ship, thruster
burns, heat, sensors, comm data, all of it would be reflected back by the Gap
Wall. And due to the concave shape of the wall from the inside, it would act
like a lens, focusing the beams of energy like a beacon, directly at
strategically placed receivers within Linked Space. Once anything was
detected, Shadow Agents were immediately dispatched to observe, analyze, and
if need be, destroy.

####   Radiance

Radiance is the name given to the Gap Boundry on the FreeSpace side. Named so
due to the fact that is shines brilliantly in every wavelength of the electro-
magnetic spectrum, it tends to be a sight to behold in the skies of nearby
planets. Most folk are not very aware of its physical importance as a boundry,
however; they merely think that it is a large astrophysical phenomena that is
incredibly hard to approach due to the intensity of the radiation it puts out.

Physically, Radiance takes the form of a sphere 300 light-years across. Around
the perimeter of the sphere, in line with the galactic plane, there are
portals going through Radiance to the Gap on the other side. There are 12 of
these portals, one at each clock point.

These portals tend to be incredibly fiercely guarded by a large Armada and a
Gate Guardian. Gate Guardians are hand picked Immortal Elites (~150 XP) that
serve the Council. The Gate Guardians never leave the Gates they lay
perpetually in wait in case the gates are ever seiged.

Gates are Teleport Portals that are located flush against a planetary surface
that is in close orbit around Radiance. Such planets are tidally locked to
Radiance, so the gates always remain pointing towards Radiance (See
requirements on Teleport Gates).

Other than the gates, the Gate Planets are under the complete control of the
Gate Guardians. They tend to rule the planets as their own mini-empires, as a
way to while away the time while waiting for the inevitable attack upon the
gates.

###   FreeSpace

The vast majority of the galaxy is lumped together into a region known as
FreeSpace. FreeSpace consists of everything outside the boundaries of Radiance
that is inside of the galaxy, with the exception of the Galactic Core. Humans
don't live in the core, except for a few research outposts; the huge density
of stars in the area creates an increased background radiation that is not
healthy for humans to live in. There are civilizations there, but they are
rather reclusive, and stay outside of human affairs.

Free Space is the area of space that is free from direct council control,
although there are times that the council presence is definately felt. Free
Space is mostly corporate controlled, although there are sectors run by other
forms of government (democracy, monarchy, etc). Wars often erupt over
resources (cronium, for example).

Council influence is not nearly as obvious in FreeSpace as it is in Linked
Space. There are many agents for the Council pervading FreeSpace, but they
tend to hide their presence, working through intermediaries.

####   The FreeSpace Military

Some of the largest Free Space fleets consist of a single dreadnaught and a
few dozen other warships. (This is not that small a dreadnaught is a
ridiculously desctuctive piece of weaponry). Smaller forces consist of dozens
of warships, with cutters and fighters. Corvettes and destroyers have their
place as well.

Generally, a Free Space military force owes its allegience to one planetary
system or corporation, instead of a general governing body (as there is none).

Privateers, pirates and mercinaries thrive in Free Space.

Every once in a while, under extreme circumstances, a Council fleet makes its
way to Free Space to battle some threat or scourge. These excursions tend to
leave a lasting impression on the sectors of Free Space that they pass through
due to their sheer might and destructive tendencies.

“Those council ships, neutron bombed EVERYTHING in the whole damned sector,
and then dissappeared! I have never seen such ruthless… efficiency in my
entire life.! It was sick! Sick, I tell you! We'd already made peace with
those alien attackers!”

####   Faraway

If you've never been to Faraway, you have to go.

It's like nothing else in our universe. Party Central. I bet you never thought
that a slum could be beautiful. I know I never did; not until I saw Faraway,
at least.

They say that it is the oldest human planet. I believe it. Except for their
walled in park (and oh what a park, tretching all the way around the planet, a
300-mile wide band of tropical wonderland), everything, and I do mean
EVERYTHING, has been paved over.

Even the oceans have been locked into gigantic underground cisterns, and
cities built on top of and within them. People everywhere, more than you can
imagine. And they are all human, except for the occasional tourist. What? Oh.
No, there is the occasional alien resident there, but they number maybe one
for every few million humans. Almost non-existant.

What do you like doing, for fun? Whatever it is, you can do it there.
EVERYTHING happens on Faraway. Constantly. Nightlife? Greatest nightlife in
the universe. And oh, that night sky. you have to see it to believe that night
sky.

One of the first colonies of Earth after the creation of JumpSpace, Faraway is
located approximately 345 light-years due coreward of Sol. It remains one of
the most strongly populated of all human homeworlds outside of Linked Space,
and is a booming center of trade. Most of Faraway is a huge urbanized sprawl,
with layers upon layers of cityscape forming huge towers into the sky, and
burrowing miles underground. The city pretty much extends over the entire
planetary surface, except for around the equatorial band; that has been left
alone (on the surface, at least) as a huge walled in band of parkland. Under
the surface, the city forms a complete shell around the planet.

One of the first things that someone notices upon arriving at Faraway is that
during the nighttime, Radiance fills over half of the night sky with a huge
multi-colored shimmering wall of brightness. As a result, the nighttime on
Faraway is almost as bright as the day, especially with all of the city lights
that are constantly on. The only real difference between night and day,
infact, is that the sky goes from a bluish-purple hue to every color of the
rainbow. Stars are almost non-existant in the night-time sky, with the
brilliance of Radiance outshining everything else so strongly; however, there
are over 7 moons to Faraway that provide their own backdrops of light in the
night sky. Several of these are populated, as well, and have their own little
light shows going on.

#####   Planetary Specifications

Geologically, Faraway is a lot like Earth. Roughly 9000 miles in diameter, it
is somewhat bigger than Earth is; however, it's surface gravity is almost the
same. This is due to the fact that the structural density is somewhat lower;
the core is more Fe(I) based, rather than the more structurally dense Fe(II)
Iron structure that Earth has.

Geosphere: 68.3% continental coverage. Hydrosphere: 31.7% Coverage, primary
constituent: H2O Tidal resistance is fairly high; earthquakes tend to be low.
Planet much older, so colder; less tectonics.

More uniform composition spread; slower cooldown time than Earth. Formed in an
older time, so less heavy metals, but a lot of ferrous material. Extremely
structurally solid rock.

7 moons, 1 ring of previously existing moon. Tidally balanced, so net force on
planet tends to be minimal.

Orbital Paramters 114 million miles from Faraway Star. Rotation: 32 hours
Revolution: 1.33 years Orbital Tilt: 4.36: Extremely mild seasonal variations.
Atmosphere: Near Earth Normal: 79% N2, 20.5% O2, .5% Misc The Seven Moons of
Faraway

Formisio - The innermost moon of Faraway. Hangs fairly low in the sky, and
resembles a huge red-gold sphere. Due to its closeness with Faraway, it is
extremely active tectonically, and has huge mountain ranges and valleys that
show up in stunning relief from the ground. Every once in a while, the
tectonic buildup will reach incredible proportions, and a days long moon-wide
surface restructuring will occur, providing an amazing show for the people
planetside.

Taval - A plain purplish-grey moon hanging in the sky, this moon most
resemble's Earths moon other than in color. The surface is not populated, due
to the compete lack of an atmosphere, but there are several underground
colonies on Taval.

Escalon - The largest of the seven moons is known as Escalon. It is roughly
the size of Earth's moon, and a brilliant crystalline blue in color, due to
the excessive amounts of copper in it's semi-liquid surface. It shines like a
giant sapphire in the night sky. While not really populated, in the
residential sense, it is filled with a lot of power stations, it's copper sea
being somewhat ideal to serve as industrial reservoirs and coolant for the
myriad thermonuclear plants dotting its surface. The moon is dotted with
several tiny black-basalt islands where the power plants are stationed. Often
times, due to the excess of power stored within the ocean, huge bolts of
lightning will go skittering across the surface of the planet, resulting in a
spectacular light show for the population of Faraway. In order to protect
themselves from the lightning strikes, the power stations are surrounded by
energized force fields, that shine in a brilliant greenish hue whenever struck
by the ever-present surface lightning.

Calina

Nescarim

A'aeterion - This fairly decent sized moon has a tiny but fairly dense
atmosphere, mostly of CO2 and gaseous H2O. Due to the thermally retaining
properties of these gasses, the surface of A'aeterion tends to be quite
comfortable in temperature, if somewhat unbreathable. This moon is populated;
many of the truly rich of Faraway make their homes here, in private domes that
sometimes tower above the atmospheric layer, providing a stunning view of the
sky. The atmosphere of A'aeterion tends to extremely opaque over distances
greater than a half-mile or so, giving the entire moon a perpetually foggy
appearance, and lending to the air of privacy that attracts Faraway's wealthy
crowd.

Seundanz - This tiny moon can only be seen as a brilliant marble in the sky.
It's coloration varies from yellow to white, with streaks of black running
through it from basaltic lava flows. This moon is populated mainly by
scientific and military stations, as its position as the farthest moon in the
system makes it an idea point to place surveillance and communications
equipment.

###   Vien

History ofVien

Vien Planet

Vien Orbital Ring

Current Events in Vien

###   Diego Sector

Diego Sector is a sector that is relatively close to Linked Space (roughly
5000 light years away) but isolated enough that it tends to escape the
attentions of its neibhors. There are several large systems of note in the
sector, as is detailed below.

A History of Diego

Diego System

Diego System is the most populous system of this sector, which is why the
sector is named after it. It is known primarily for its shipyards, which bring
a large amount of commerce into the system.

Diego Station

Allen Planet

Primarily known as the headquarters to Allen Corporation. The entire planet is
given over to running the Corporation; everyone works for the Corporation in
one way or another.

Allen Trading Corporation

Deals with shipments of all sorts… makes its money by buying good and selling
them in better markets. Immensely wealthy, controls most of the commerce in
Diego Sector.

Allen Corporation is mostly a hereditary corporation, with its higher-level
managers gaining their positions by inheriting them from their parents for the
most part. There is advancement for those who do well, of course, but many of
the Vice Presidents, Presidents, and CEOs came into power solely through
inheritance.

TriStar Resorts

Where ANYTHING you desire will be done, for the paltry price of 1 Billion
sands a day.

A stellar resort system, Tristar has maybe 40 planets that it controls within
the trinary system it calls home. In that area, it has set up a resort where
literally anything can be done to keep you entertained, as long as you pay the
daily fee. Many of the truly rich come here for entertainment they canin his
life.

TriStar Resorts is really run by 3 immortals, with Life Creation,
ElectroKinesis, Influence, Illusion, and Matter Creation as the powers that
they share amongst themselves. With these abilities, it is easy for them to
manage the resort to the almost unreal quality that people have come to expect
from TriStar.

Starlining Mining Corporation

Mines cronium. Has 4 mines, all of them within Diego Sector. Generally sells
the cronium off directly to Allen Corporation, for them to distribute as the
market demands. Cronium prices haven't changed in millenia, and it is always
needed, so cronium is a good thing to mine (in addition to the fact that all
galactic currency is backed in cronium).

Sanctuary

A total backwoods of a planet, run by a solitary immortal who likes his
isolation. He does nothing to attract attention, and so tends to be left
alone. The general population believes that he is a really rich guy who has
transfered his brain into an android to keep stay alive for so long (He has
ruled over Sanctuary for several hundred years now…).

###   The FreeSpace Economy

####   Banks

Banks in FreeSpace tend to be run by many independent corporations and
governments. They are all connected by the Datasphere, allowing any
transaction to instantly be recorded anywhere in freespace. Due to the
frequency with which Banks are attacked, even the smallest Galactic Banking
Groups have several AI's defending their datastores and assets. Small banks
might only have 2 or 3 AI's of Rank 10. A larger bank or institution would
have 20 or more Rank 12 AI's, or even a few Rank 14's. AI Ranks correspond to
their THT, WIL, and Computer Systems skill level.

All banked funds are backed by hard assets in the form of sands. A sand is
equivelent to 1 dollar's worth of cronium (1e-7lbs).

Due to the current backing system of the galactic economy, many banks start
out as mining corporations that stumble upon a vein of cronium.

##   JumpSpace

Jumpspace is one of those strange mysteries of the Universe that no one
(except maybe the Council) understands, but without which the human galactic
civilization (and several others) could not exist.

Jumpspace spans the width of the galaxy, but ends shortly past it's gravitic
borders. It ends at Linked Space boundry as well. There is no JumpSpace in
Linked Space. It is theorized that the force of diverting JumpSpace around
Linked Space is what gives Radiance it's fierce energy to keep on shining.

The laws of reality are different in jumpspace. Physics does not work as
expected, and the rules of jumpspace physics change from area to area.

There is a jumpspace ecology, with Xelomites at the top of the food chain.

There is jumpspace terrain, and it does NOT corrospond to realspace terrain.
As a result, leaving jumpspace is a little tricky, as it is easier to enter
realspace near the center of a gravity well, but far more dangerous (what if
you enter inside a star?). Astrogation plays a vital role in galactic commerce
and travel. Skilled astrogaters are rare and worth an enormous sum of money to
a Jumpship.

Anyone without the Warp power or a Nav Computer (see equipment) that rolls a 1
on the d20 roll for an astrogation check when traveling more than 10 light
years results in accidentally opening a rift back to normal space inside of a
sun (Gravitation Wells suck ships out of Warp space in the wrong location,
damage= 60 per round).

Ship speeds are 1000 light years/day in Jump Space. The compression ratio from
normal space to jump space is approximately 1e10 so 1 yard in jump space is
1e10 or 10 billion yards in regular space.

##   The Galactic Map

###   Long Range Space Travel

##   ElectroImmortals and NavComps

See descriptions for ElectroImmortals

There are 12 locations in Free Space where Nav computers are created.

Nav Computers are created by mindless creations of the Council that create the
entities that become the Nav Computers. In addition, the Council has been
known to take their mortal opponents, and as a form of punishment, lobotomize
them and turn them into Nav Computers or various forms of electronic
entertainment systems.

The NavComputer creators possess the Electrokinesis, and Warp Control powers.
The NavComputers themselves posess the Electrokinesis and Warp Control powers.

Nav Computers include electro-immortals that no longer take human form with
THT 6 and Astrogation 5 as well as Master of the Warp 1 and Electrokinesis 1
(they are mass produced at IPL 10 by the council). Unfortunately they were
lobotomized before being made into immortals and can never fully heal. The
navigation roll for a nav computer is d20+(6THT+5Skill+1Warp)= d20 + 24 so
they routinely make 1000 light year jumps (succeed on a 7 plus and at most are
600 light years off target).

Navcomp Factories

##   Galactic Technology

In the year 12036 much advancement has been made compared to 20th century
technology. Portable computers known as Global's provide citizens with access
to public transportation (hover cars), three dimensional coordinates (relative
to local planet origin, or local solar origin), and fine dining locations as
well as access to mind boggling computational power. Globals have also been
enabled to perform retinal scans for identification, as well as credit
transactions. The handy dandy portable Global computers have a huge variety of
functions. Matter energy converters provide citizens with just about any basic
goods they may need ( although the power used in their creation isn't free).
The modern economy is based on H7 Cronium, the compound used for powering
ships engines allowing rapid long range jump-space travel. Most local power
supply stations. The process of using H7 involves advanced fusion techniques.
Because of the apparent rarity of H7 and the impossibility of generating it
with matter converting technology it is the basis on which all credit
transactions are founded.

The maximum safe distance traveled by any vehicle entering jump space is 10
light years. Ships outfitted with electro-immortals ( lobotomized criminals
and undesirables transformed into immortals with electrokinesis and warp
mastery) provide all the processing necessary for a better form of navigation
of jump space. With this astro- navigation enabled and the proper amount of H7
jumps can be made that allow travelling up to a 1000 light years per day. The
galaxy can be crossed in just over three months of jump space travel. Jump
space only exists up to the edge of the galaxy so intergalactic travel is
still theoretically impractical. The scientific teams at the COT ( Council of
Time) headquarters under the surface of earth work day and night on this
problem. The Council's primary goal is maintenance of its power base. If the
secret of creating immortals was ever leaked or re-discovered the grip of the
Council on the populations throughout the galaxy would be broken. Therefore a
secret military sector, the Galactic Information Agency, has been dedicated to
prohibiting research in the field of genetics. Basic viral research is
acceptable. But any cloning techniques and genetic engineering have been
outlawed. The Council has described such research as, unethical ever since the
Children of the Ark project was cancelled in the year 2122. Local skirmishes
occasionally arise as a race for resources becomes a battle for control. The
Council only steps in to quell such small wars if it feels they are a
significant threat to their power.

You can't increase most item stats over the listed amount (the current
technology doesn't support it, therefore to increase an Androids stats above 5
it would require true research, a wonderful lab and years of trial and error
testing taking up your character full attention→ that's beyond the scope of
the game). Tech has pretty much reached it's quantum limits in many areas
thousands of years ago so new advances are ultra-rare and very difficult to
come by. Some areas can be increased: The vehicle agility of ships can be
increased- up to double the base agility. Masterly crafted items yield a +1 to
hit bonus, that's about the limit of “raising” stats for equipment.
Customization is of course possible, mixing and matching various parts
together, but as far as creating a mag pistol that does 6 damage instead of 5
the answer is no, in order to create such an item the mag pistol which has
been optimized would have to be made larger and would be treated as a mag
rifle. Tech/Equipment just doesn't have the same potential as your characters,
it's limited where the immortals are not.

##   Artifacts

There are many artifacts floating around the galaxy that no one has a really
good explanation for. Generally, they are the remnants of older civilizations,
although a few are probably the result of a Council member meddling around
with things some time ago. A quick list of a few of there are given below:

Labyrinth - 7 worlds are connected through an labyrinth system that runs
through the crusts of the planets. Any dating test performed on labyrinth rock
returns a result of 20,000 to 50,000 years of age. There have been many
efforts to map the labyrith, to no success… they seem to run through jumpspace
into other planets through a shifting pattern.

Impression - Kills the person entering it. Shaped like a giant tube. Transfers
the essence of the person (including their mentality and memories) into any
other body that the person inside Impression knows the location and identity
of. That body is transferred from wherever it is, and comes out the far side
of the Impression tube.

The Limits of Technology

##   People and Aliens

There are many different civilizations in the COTA universe. The galaxy is a
very large place, and a lot of different things can be found in it. The
majority, in this day and age, tend to be of the human persuasion, as the
council did a housecleaning of anything that was close to a threat during the
Diaspora. However, there are many alien species alive and living with
humanity, just none that are as all pervasive as humans are.

The two major non-human factions that exist are AI's and Xelomites. Both have
their niches; AI's in the Datasphere that pervades FreeSpace, and Xelomites in
JumpSpace. Humans, of course, are omnipresent in the physical part of
FreeSpace, and rule absolutely in LinkedSpace.

###   The Council Hunters

These are the elite of the freeroving council agents. They are almost always
Immortals in the service of the council (100xp). They have a great deal of
independant autonomy to hunt down and destroy anything they see as a threat to
the council.

They tend to be extremely honorable, although they are will-bound to serve the
council. Where given free reign, though, they tend to obey the Hunter's code
as laid down by the council.

####   Hunter's Code

Serve and obey the will of the council. Capture or convert rogue immortals.
Cleanse the Xelomite infestation.

###   AIs

AI's tend to socialize in the Datasphere, which is a galaxy-wide virtual net.
Connections to the Datasphere is fairly expensive, as all Datasphere
communications happen at an FTL rate. This is why AI's still work in a human
controlled economy. They need the money that humans pay them as salary to
support their datalines.

AI's have a specialized requirement in terms of their physical housing. The
smallest form of this take the form of a specialized global (twice the size of
a normal global, with an incredibly massive amount of data storage). They can
exist in any sufficiently advanced computer system, given that it has a large
data storage array and a high-throughput FTL communications backbone. Strictly
speaking, the physical hardware is not necessary… an AI can transmit itself
through any data pipeline, leaving its physical body behind; however, during
this time, they are in a state of suspended animation, and are extremely
vulnurable (if nothing recieves their transmission, then their signal
continues to travel onwards forever, or until it decays. They will never wake
up).

###   Xelomites

Xelomites are divided into several factions known as Gaggles.

A Gaggle is defined as all Xelomites that are the progeny of the single ruling
Xelomite of the Gaggle.

This Xelomite is referred to as the Patriarch.

A Xelomite Lord is a Xelomite that has spawned several Patriarchs, and has
achieved considerable power.

Xelomites reproduce by infecting a member of another intelligent species, and
through the infectation, converting them into a Xelomite.

Xelomites are gender neutral, although many of them have a gender from their
original species. In other words, any Xelomite can spawn, regardless of the
gender of their body. Xelomites do not depend on sexual reproduction.

After the conversion, a Xelomite bears a strong resemblence to his original
shape/form, although they tend to change several external features (such as
gaining red scaly/leathery horned skin, claws, etc).

Xelomites retain their original identity and memories, although their motives
change once they undergo conversion. They become extremely loyal to their
Patriarch, and take on his goals and desires as their own. Under that
guidance, though, they have considerable free will to do things their way.

Xelomites tend to be fairly fit physically and mentally, having stats of 6
across the board. Also, they regenerate from thier Body Reconstruction power.

Xelomites are immortals. If a Xelomite is killed in real space, his ghost is
immediately transferred to Jump Space, where it takes a day to regrow a new
body/reestablish ties to the old one. If he is killed in Jump Space, however,
it takes him 4 weeks to regrow his body, as he has Body Reconstruction level
1. If a Xelomite is killed in a real space location where he can not transfer
to JumpSpace (i.e. past the edge of a galaxy or within the Gap around Linked
Space), then he will take 4 weeks to regenerate, and pop back into realspace
after that time. Xelomites live in JumpSpace by nature. They have no
technology, but are biologically gifted. They can modify the creatures of
jumpspace to suit any of their needs, even to the point of taking some of the
larger jumpspace denizens and reforming them into living ships.

Xelomites were first encountered by Humans in the year 7220. They have since
then initiated a reign of terror across much of galactic space, when they have
been able to find their way into realspace. Fortunately for humanity, their
lack of technology makes it somewhat difficult for them to open up warp gates
at will; they depend upon encountering other ships as they are entering or
leaving jump space to get back and forth.

#   Just In Case You Were Curious

##   Character Stats

coTA's aren't limited like normal humans to a maximum stat advancement to 10.
The reason for this is that genetic alteration of the COTA has given them
almost infinite potential. As they learn about their powers and understand
their nature their physical limitations recede. The only limit on a COTA's
stat or power is their Immortal Power Level or IPL.

###   Body Reconstruction

COTA's being immortals maintain their consciousness even after their bodies
are devoid of life. Once in the ether state the immortals may begin tapping
into jump space's cosmic energies to construct a new body. This body exists as
an advanced energy pattern and comes into physical existence the moment it is
completed. This may leave a COTA in space quite vulnerable as they will only
have a moment to protect themselves from the harsh environment of space (
Teleport, Matter creations, shape change, energy creation).

Body Reconstruction is what defines an immortal. Having Body Reconstruction
allows any creature to be an immortal, and gain immortal abilities. It also
provides for the ghost form that an immortal reverts to when his body is
destroyed.

####   Destruction of the Physical Form

If the immortals physical body is ever destroyed ( a.k.a. he is killed ) the
immortal immediately experiences ghost form. The immortal cannot be detected
in ghost form except if scanned (by the power), or by another immortal in
ghost form, or by special scanning technology used on modified globals. In
this state the immortals exists as an ethereal trans-dimensional being. The
immortal is indestructible in this form, but may be captured in specially
designed energy cubes ( which are usually included in the specially modified
globals). The immortal may float at 10mph in any direction but cannot use his
immortal powers (except body reconstruction) or physically effect anything.
The immortal can hear and see in ghost form, but his site is in black and
white. Special modifications to globals have been designed that allow a ghost
form immortal to communicate with people before a new body has been
constructed ( also in the specially modified globals). If the immortal begins
concentrating an energy pattern spreads out before them and a new body can be
made ( see body reconstruction ).

This new body is also undetectable by most means.

After a new body is completed ( the immortal can wait before finishing ) the
immortal is immediately transferred into the body. It is believed that an
immortal in ghost form can see other people's auras leaving their bodies after
death before vanishing out of site.

###   Vaccuum Survival

Besides decompression, which should cause intense pain/damage and eventual
death in under a minute, you'd freeze if there wasn't a local solar body. If
there is a solar body near bye you'd freeze on one side and fry on the other.
Damage should be at about d6 per round (durability and thick skin help protect
the individual from the cold and pressure damage). It's conceivable that a
tough immortal or one with a deep understanding of body reconstruction could
survive indefinitely in space writhing in agony until they were able to
concentrate enough to save themselves ( a Very Difficult will test is required
to act coherently ). An immortal with teleport could transfer himself to
safety if a hospitable location is within range. One with matter creation
could create an oxygen bubble within a sealed bubble of sorts. One with shape
change could transform into a creature that consists of animated adamantium
requiring no air and completely unaffected by the temperature extremes. Energy
creation could allow an immortal to generate a bubble or field around him or
her and start warming it up. Unfortunately this won't supply the immortal with
oxygen so this method won't maintain the immortal for long. Angels, the elite
agents of the Council of Time have been engineered with incredible temperature
tolerance and decreased oxygen needs to allow them to function in deep space
for up to a day. Xelomites hardy nature allows these foul beings to exist in
the vacuum of space indefinitely.

Although people can survive for very short times in space without protection,
it isn't a pleasant experience.

###   The Mathematics/Physics of COTA

=== LinkedSpace Math ===

Link space consists of a 30 light year radius of interconnecting Dysonspheres
and cylindrical links known as conduits.

####   Xelomite Food Sources

#   Running The Game

##   Long Term Plotline Ideas

Human/Xelomite War: Something needs to be done about the fact that human
technology is destroying the Xelomite home dimension. The council obviously
doesn't care, but the Xelomites do, and they are out to do something about it,
with a vengeance. I'm sure that this will eventually escalate into a huge
war…. that could make an interesting story line.

Finding out about the alien artifacts: There are a lot of alien artifacts all
over the place… They came from somewhere. What do they do, and what happened
to their creators?

The Council of Time: They need to be stopped, or replaced. But how? The entire
galactic economy is based on Cronium, the fuel behind the fastest form of
travel, and also the strongest material known to man. Why does the council
want Cronium to be used up? Is it related to the limitation of Jump Space
ending at our galatic boundary? What happens if a significant portion of
Cronium is used up? If Electro-Nav Computers can open up gates to Jump Space
and safely navigate it, but are “programmed” not to when first lobotomized,
they could make fast space travel virtually free (1000 light years per day).

Linked Space: Where the hell did the mass for all of this come from, anyways?
Taking over parts of it could be fascinating. Especially if this group is
cooperating with the council… in that case, they could have mini-stewardships,
and make it a more political maneuvering style game.

Saving the Universe: All the powers that the 10,000 or so immortals that were
created are using have to be messing up the universe somehow. How? And what
can be done about it?

##   Introductory Adventure

###   Sanctuary

###   NPC Sheets

#   Quick Character Generation

#   Character Sheets



Logged in as: Mark J. Essel

book_-_cota.txt · Last modified: 2009/02/06 14:00 by messel



     

